 OF OPERATIONS
 
      The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the
 accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for the three
 and six months ended June 30, 1998 and June 29, 1997.
 
 ACQUISITIONS
 
      On March 30, 1998, the Company, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired
 approximately 81% of the total number of then outstanding shares of common stock
 of The Coleman Company, Inc. ("Coleman"), in exchange for 14,099,749 shares of
 the Company's common stock and approximately $160 million in cash as well as the
 assumption of $1,016 million in debt. The Company expects to acquire the
 remaining equity interest in Coleman pursuant to a merger transaction in which
 the existing Coleman minority shareholders will receive approximately 6.7
 million shares of common stock and approximately $87 million in cash. Although
 there can be no assurance, it is anticipated the Coleman merger will occur in
 the first half of fiscal 1999. (See Note 2 to the condensed consolidated
 financial statements). Coleman is a leading manufacturer and marketer of
 consumer products for the worldwide outdoor recreation market. Its products have
 been sold domestically under the Coleman /registered trademark/ brand name since
 the 1920's.
 
      On April 6, 1998, the Company completed the cash acquisitions of First
 Alert, Inc. ("First Alert"), a leading manufacturer of smoke and carbon monoxide
 detectors, and Signature Brands USA, Inc. ("Signature Brands"), a leading
 manufacturer of consumer and professional products. The First Alert and the
 Signature Brands acquisitions were valued at approximately $178 million and $253
 million, respectively, including the assumption of debt.
 
      The acquisitions were recorded under the purchase method of accounting; and
 accordingly, the results of operations of each acquired entity are included in
 the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations from the
 respective dates of acquisition. The purchase prices of the acquired entities
 have been allocated to individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed based
 on preliminary estimates of fair market values at the dates of acquisition. The
 purchase price allocations for the acquisitions will be revised when additional
 information concerning asset and liability valuations is obtained. Adjustments,
 which could be significant, will be made during the allocation periods based on
 detailed reviews of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed
 and could result in a substantial change in goodwill and other intangible
 assets.
 
      To standardize the fiscal period ends of the Company and the acquired
 entities, effective with its 1998 fiscal year, the Company has changed its
 fiscal year end from the Sunday nearest December 31 to a calendar year. (See
 Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements.)
 
 THREE MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 1998 COMPARED TO THREE MONTHS ENDED JUNE 29, 1997
 
      Results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 1998 include the
 results of Coleman for the entire period and of Signature Brands and First Alert
 from the date of acquisition. The acquired entities generated net sales of
 $376.3 million in the quarter with corresponding gross margin of $79.0 million,
 or 21.0% of sales. SG&A costs recorded by the acquired entities were $75.9
 million in the period, yielding an operating profit of $3.1 million. Included in
 cost of sales of the acquired entities for the quarter was approximately $20
 million of expense related to purchase accounting adjustments which require
 adjusting the values of acquired inventories to fair market value at the date of
 acquisition. Accordingly, as these inventories are sold, the purchase accounting
 adjustments related to these inventories (in this case, increases in inventory
 values) are reflected in cost of sales. A year ago, for the full quarter, these
 businesses generated sales approximately $69.0 million higher than in the second
 quarter of 1998. The majority of this sales decrease occurred at Coleman where
 sales were impacted by fewer product lines resulting from the sale of a portion
 of the business, exiting the pressure washer business during 1997, and a program
 in 1997 to reduce SKU's. Softness in demand resulting from the domestic retail
 channel's efforts to lower inventory levels and adverse economic conditions in
 Japan and Southeast Asia also impacted Coleman's sales as compared with the
 second quarter of the prior year. Additionally, each acquired business
 experienced a general disruption due to the acquisitions and management changes.
 As compared with a year ago, Signature Brands sales were adversely affected by
 product availability issues. Excluding the impact of the purchase accounting
 adjustments described above, gross margin generated by the acquired entities was
 $24.3 million lower in 1998 than for the same quarter in 1997. The lower sales
 at Coleman and Signature Brands accounted for approximately 80% of this change,
 while the remainder was principally due to a change in sales mix of Signature
 Brands products and charges related primarily to excess and obsolete inventory.
 
 
 
                                        19
 <PAGE>
 
 
      In 1997 and the first half of 1998, the Company built inventories in
 anticipation of 1998 sales volumes which have not materialized. Inventory on
 hand at June 30, 1998, before consideration of allowances and inventories of
 acquired entities, was nearly double the amount at the end of the second quarter
 of 1997. As a result, it has been and will continue to be necessary to dispose
 of some portions of this excess inventory at amounts less than cost.
 Accordingly, in the second quarter of 1998, the Company recorded $46.4 million
 in charges to properly state this inventory at lower-of-cost-or-market. Of this
 charge, a nominal amount related to an acquired entity. The Company also
 recorded a charge of $11.0 million for excess inventories for raw materials and
 work in process which will not be used due to outsourcing the production of the
 related products. Additionally, the Company decided to discontinue certain
 product lines in the second quarter of 1998 and, accordingly, recorded a charge
 of $26.6 million to properly state this inventory at lower-of-cost-or-market.
 Approximately 80% of this charge related to the recently developed air and water
 filtration products and certain grill products.
 
      In the second quarter of 1998, as a result of decisions to outsource or
 discontinue a substantial number of products previously made by the Company,
 certain facilities and equipment will either no longer be used or will be used
 in a significantly different manner. Accordingly, a charge of $29.6 million was
 recorded to write certain of these assets down to reflect the fair market value
 of items held for disposition. Approximately 80% of this charge related to
 machinery, equipment and tooling at the Company's Mexico City and Hattiesburg,
 Mississippi manufacturing plants. Personnel at the Mexico City facility were
 notified in the second quarter of 1998 that the plant is scheduled for closure
 at year-end 1998, accordingly, a liability of $1.8 million was recorded in cost
 of goods sold primarily for employee severance and other facility closure costs.
 The Company is in the process of assessing the impairment of certain other
 assets to be retained by the Company which will be used in a significantly
 different manner as a result of the decisions to outsource or discontinue
 certain products. Additionally, the Company is in the process of assessing the
 expected future performance of its business operations. These assessments are
 expected to be completed in the fourth quarter and are expected to result in
 material adjustments to the valuation of assets used in the business.
 
      Net sales as reported by Sunbeam is comprised of gross sales less
 provisions for estimated customer returns, discounts, promotional allowances,
 cooperative advertising allowances and costs incurred by the Company to ship
 product to customers. Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 1998 were
 $578.5 million, an increase of $307.1 million versus the three months ended June
 29, 1997. After excluding: (i) $376.3 million from 1998 sales generated by the
 acquired entities, as discussed above, and (ii) $8.3 million from 1997 sales for
 sales of discontinued inventory (which resulted primarily from the reduction of
 SKU's as part of the 1996 restructuring plan and for which the inventory
 carrying value was substantially equivalent to the sales value) and a benefit
 from the reduction of cooperative advertising accruals no longer required in
 1997, net sales on an adjusted basis ("Adjusted Sales") were $202.2 million in
 1998, a 23% decrease from $263.1 million in the second quarter of 1997. Overall,
 Adjusted Sales for the second quarter of 1998 were adversely impacted by
 increased inventory positions at customers from sales made during 1997 and the
 first quarter of 1998. In addition, the historical Sunbeam operations were
 adversely impacted by disruption from acquisition activities and management
 changes in the period.
 
      Domestic Adjusted Sales declined approximately $46 million from the second
 quarter of 1997. The Company believes nearly all of this decline was
 attributable to declining retail inventory levels in the quarter as compared
 with increasing levels in the same quarter of 1997. Based on the Company's
 analyses, inventory positions at customers began increasing in the second
 quarter of 1997, with significant growth occurring in the third and fourth
 quarters of 1997. In the first quarter of 1998, it is believed retail inventory
 levels of the Company's products continued to increase, although not as markedly
 as in either of the last two quarters of 1997. Overall, the Company believes
 domestic retail inventory positions of the Company's products increased nearly
 $120 million from the second quarter of 1997 through the first quarter of 1998.
 In the second quarter of 1998, these inventories are believed to have been
 reduced by approximately 36%.
 
      International sales, which represented 22% of Adjusted Sales in the second
 quarter of 1998, decreased approximately 26% compared with the second quarter of
 1997's Adjusted Sales. This sales decline, which arose primarily in Latin
 America and Canada, is believed to be due in part to decreasing customer
 inventory levels as compared with the prior year. In addition, sales in Latin
 America were adversely impacted by lower sales to certain export distributors
 and by poor economic conditions. In Canada, sales were adversely impacted by a
 loss of certain grill distribution.
 
      Excluding: (i) the gross margin generated from the inclusion of the
 acquired entities' operations in the quarter, as discussed above; (ii) the
 charges in the second quarter of 1998 related to excess inventory and fixed
 assets, as discussed above; (iii) a $4.0 million benefit in 1997 of reducing the
 cooperative advertising accrual no longer required, and (iv) a $2.8 million
 benefit recorded in the second quarter of 1997 resulting from capitalizing
 manufacturing supplies inventories which were previously expensed, gross margin
 declined to a loss of $21.7 million for the second quarter of 1998 versus a
 profit of $48.5 million for the same period a year ago. The decline in sales
 between years contributed to the decline in gross margin dollars generated.
 Gross margin was also adversely affected by price discounting, overall lower
 market prices on breadmakers and an adverse product sales mix in 1998. The
 adverse product sales mix was due in part to the loss of a majority of the grill
 parts and accessories products distribution. Parts and accessories generate
 significantly better margins than the average margins on sales of grills. During
 the second quarter of each year, grill and grill parts and accessories sales are
 traditionally a higher portion of overall sales than during other quarters of
 the year. Due to the level of Outdoor Cooking products sales in the quarter and
 the level of on-hand inventories, the Company began the season-end ramp down of
 production at the Neosho Outdoor Cooking products facility earlier than
 previously planned. This ramp down in manufacturing, along with costs associated
 with a blanket recall, and certain adjustments related to physical inventories
 drove the remaining
 
 
                                        20
 <PAGE>
 
 increases in cost of goods sold in the quarter. Operating results will be
 adversely impacted due to higher inventory carrying costs and unabsorbed fixed
 factory overhead during the remainder of the year.
 
      Excluding the effect of: (i) $75.9 million of SG&A expense incurred by the
 acquired entities; (ii) approximately $0.8 million of benefit in the second
 quarter of 1998 from the reversal of deferred compensation charges recorded in
 the first quarter; (iii) a $2.9 million benefit in the second quarter of 1998
 and $0.4 million in 1997 from the reversal of reserves no longer required, and
 (iv) $5.2 million of restructuring related charges recorded in 1997, SG&A
 expenses were $68.6 million in 1998, double the amount for the same period in
 1997. Advertising and marketing costs were $11 million higher in 1998 than in
 1997, due to a national television advertising campaign for grills, package
 redesign costs, market research and the acceleration of advertising spending in
 the year as compared with 1997. Higher inventory levels in 1998 and costs
 associated with outsourcing small parts fulfillment led to higher distribution
 and warehousing costs which were $7 million greater than in the same period of
 1997. Corporate administrative costs were $11 million higher between years,
 resulting primarily from increases in outside service provider fees, travel and
 relocation fees, and other general administrative costs. Higher bad debt charges
 as compared with the prior year accounted for the majority of the remaining
 increase in SG&A costs between years. These bad debt charges resulted nearly
 equally from collection issues with certain customers in the US and in Latin
 America.
 
      Operating results for the second quarters of 1998 and 1997, on an adjusted
 basis as described above, were a loss of $90.3 million in 1998 and a profit of
 $14.8 million in 1997. This change resulted from the factors discussed above.
 
      Interest expense increased from $3.0 million in the second quarter of 1997
 to $42.4 million in the second quarter of 1998 primarily related to higher
 borrowing levels in 1998 for the acquisitions and funding for increased working
 capital and operating losses. (See Note 3 to the condensed consolidated
 financial statements.)
 
      Other expense, net in 1998 of $2.1 million and $0.3 million in 1997
 primarily represents foreign exchange losses, principally from Sunbeam's
 operations in Mexico, Venezuela and Canada.
 
      The minority interest reported for the second quarter of 1998 relates to
 the minority interest held in Coleman by public shareholders.
 
      Income taxes in the second quarter of 1998 reflect foreign taxes and
 franchise taxes. A valuation allowance has been provided in 1998 for deferred
 tax assets generated by Sunbeam's operations. The 1997 rate was higher than the
 federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to state and local taxes plus
 the effect of foreign earnings taxed at other rates.
 
      Due to increased inventory positions at certain customers which resulted
 from sales in 1997 and the first quarter of 1998, as well as increased inventory
 positions at the Company, sales and operating income will be materially affected
 during the remainder of 1998 and into 1999. In addition, 1998 results will be
 impacted materially by charges related to, among other items, a change in
 management, changes in business operations resulting in part from acquisitions
 in 1998, interest costs associated with higher debt levels, costs associated
 with litigation and asset impairment costs, as well as costs related to Year
 2000 issues. (See "Liquidity and Capital Resources", below, and Notes 2, 3, 6,
 10 and 11 to the condensed consolidated financial statements.)
 
      In the second quarter of 1998, the Company prepaid certain debt assumed in
 the acquisitions. In connection with the early extinguishment of this debt, the
 Company recognized an extraordinary charge of $103.1 million ($1.02 per share).
 
 SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 1998 COMPARED TO SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 29, 1997
 
      Results of operations for the six months ended June 30, 1998 include the
 results of Coleman for March 30 and 31, 1998 and the entire second quarter and
 of Signature Brands and First Alert from April 6, 1998. The acquired entities
 generated net sales of $391.1 million in the period since the acquisitions with
 corresponding gross margin of $83.1 million, or 21.2% of sales. SG&A costs
 recorded by the acquired entities were $79.6 million in the period, yielding an
 operating profit of $3.5 million. Included in cost of sales of the acquired
 entities was approximately $20 million of expense related to purchase accounting
 adjustments which require adjusting the values of acquired inventories to fair
 market value at the date of acquisition. Accordingly, as these inventories are
 sold, the purchase accounting adjustments related to these inventories (in this
 case, increases in inventory values) are reflected in cost of sales. A year ago,
 on a year-to-date basis, these acquired entities generated sales approximately
 $122 million higher than for the current year-to-date. The majority of this
 decrease occurred at Coleman where sales were impacted by fewer product lines
 resulting from the sale of a portion of the business, exiting the pressure
 washer business during 1997, and a program in 1997 to reduce SKU's. Softness in
 demand resulting from the domestic retail channel's efforts to lower inventory
 levels and adverse economic conditions in Japan and Southeast Asia also impacted
 Coleman's sales as compared with the first half of the prior year. Additionally,
 each acquired business experienced a general disruption due to the acquisitions
 and management changes. The remaining sales decline between years was from
 Signature Brands where sales were adversely affected by product availability
 issues. Excluding the impact of the purchase accounting adjustments, as
 described above, gross margins generated by the acquired entities were $50.0
 million lower in the first half of 1998 as compared to the same period in the
 prior year. The lower sales at Coleman and Signature Brands accounted for
 approximately 80% of this change, while the remainder was principally due to a
 change in the sales mix of Signature Brands products, increases in product
 returns at First Alert and charges related primarily to excess and obsolete
 inventory.
 
 
                                        21
 <PAGE>
 
      Net sales for the six months ended June 30, 1998 were $826.1 million, an
 increase of $302.2 million versus the six months ended June 29, 1997. After
 excluding: (i) $391.1 million of sales generated by the acquired entities, as
 discussed above; (ii) approximately $4 million of higher sales in 1998 resulting
 from the change in fiscal year end, as described in Note 1 to the condensed
 consolidated financial statements; (iii) $18.0 million from 1997 sales of
 discontinued inventory which resulted primarily from the reduction of SKU's as
 part of the 1996 restructuring plan and for which the inventory carrying value
 was substantially equivalent to the sales value; (iv) $4.2 million from 1997
 sales relating to divested product lines which are not classified as
 discontinued operations (time and temperature products and Counselor /
 registered trademark/ and Borg /registered trademark/ branded scales), and (v) a
 $4.0 million benefit from the reduction of cooperative advertising accruals no
 longer required in 1997, net sales on an adjusted basis ("Adjusted Sales") of
 $431.4 million were down approximately 13% from $497.6 million in the first half
 of 1997. Overall, product sales were adversely impacted by decreasing inventory
 positions at customers, price discounting and higher provisions for estimated
 returns, costs to ship products to customers, rebates and other customer
 allowances.
 
      Domestic Adjusted Sales declined approximately $59 million from the first
 half of 1997. Nearly all of this decline was from the Outdoor Cooking and
 Appliance categories, with the majority of the change due to Outdoor Cooking.
 During 1997, the Company lost a significant portion of its Outdoor Cooking
 products distribution, including the majority of its grill parts and accessories
 products distribution. The Outdoor Cooking products sales decline was
 attributable to this lost distribution, to high levels of retail inventory from
 sales in the fourth quarter of 1997, to price discounting and higher customer
 allowances. The Company believes the decline in sales in the Appliance category
 resulted primarily from increasing retail inventory levels for the first six
 months of 1997 as compared with decreasing levels in 1998.
 
      International sales, which represented 24% of Adjusted Sales in the first
 half of 1998, decreased approximately 6% compared with the first half of 1997's
 Adjusted Sales. This sales decline was attributable primarily to changes in
 customer inventory levels, lower sales to certain export distributors, grill
 distribution losses in Canada, and by poor economic conditions in Latin America.
 
      Excluding: (i) the gross margin generated from the inclusion of the
 acquired entities' operations in the period, as discussed above; (ii) the impact
 of the change in fiscal year-end as discussed in Note 1 to the condensed
 consolidated financial statements; (iii) the charges in the second quarter of
 1998 related to excess inventory and fixed assets, as discussed above; (iv) $4.0
 million from the benefit in 1997 of reducing the cooperative advertising accrual
 no longer required, and (v) a $2.8 million benefit recorded in the second
 quarter of 1997 resulting from capitalizing manufacturing supplies inventories
 which were previously expensed, gross margin declined to $7.4 million for the
 first half of 1998 versus $106.8 million for the same period a year ago.
 Approximately half of the decrease is attributable to lower price realization
 and higher costs of customer allowances, rebates and similar incentives in 1998,
 higher product return reserves and an adverse product sales mix in 1998. The
 adverse product sales mix was due in part to the loss of a majority of the grill
 parts and accessories products distribution. Parts and accessories generate
 significantly better margins than the average margins on sales of grills. During
 the first half of each year, grill and grill parts and accessories sales are
 traditionally a higher portion of overall sales than during the last half of the
 year. Lower sales volume, unfavorable manufacturing efficiencies from lower
 production levels, along with costs associated with a blanket recall, and
 certain adjustments related to physical inventories drove the majority of the
 remaining increases in cost of good sold in the period.
 
      Excluding the effect of: (i) $79.6 million of SG&A charges in the acquired
 entities; (ii) approximately $0.8 million of SG&A expense in 1998 from the
 change in the fiscal period; (iii) a $5.9 million benefit in the first half of
 1998 and a $0.9 million benefit in the same period in 1997 from the reversal of
 reserves no longer required; (iv) $30.4 million of charges recorded in 1998
 related to compensation for former executives, and (v) $9.3 million of
 restructuring related charges recorded in 1997, SG&A expenses were $107.1
 million in 1998, 50% higher than the same period in 1997. Nearly all of this
 increase between years occurred in the second quarter and is explained in the
 comparison of results in the second quarter, above.
 
      Operating results for the first halves of 1998 and 1997, on an adjusted
 basis as described above, were a loss of $99.7 million in 1998 and a profit of
 $35.5 million in 1997. This change resulted from the factors discussed above.
 
      Interest expense increased from $5.0 million in the first half of 1997 to
 $47.5 million in the first half of 1998. Nearly all of the change related to
 higher borrowing levels in 1998 for the acquisitions and increased funding for
 working capital and the operating losses. (See Note 3 to the condensed
 consolidated financial statements.)
 
      Other expense, net in 1998 of $5.3 million and $0.4 million in 1997
 primarily represents foreign exchange losses, principally from Sunbeam's
 operations in Mexico, Venezuela and Canada.
 
      The minority interest reported in 1998 relates to the minority interest
 held in Coleman by public shareholders.
 
      Income taxes in 1998 reflect foreign taxes and franchise taxes. A valuation
 allowance has been provided in 1998 for deferred tax assets generated by
 Sunbeam's operations. The 1997 rate was higher than the federal statutory income
 tax rate primarily due to state and local taxes plus the effect of foreign
 earnings taxed at other rates.
 
 
                                        22
 <PAGE>
 
      In 1998, the Company prepaid certain debt assumed in the acquisitions and
 prepaid an industrial revenue bond related to its Hattiesburg facility. In
 connection with the early extinguishment of this debt, the Company recognized an
 extraordinary charge of $111.7 million ($1.20 per share).
 
      The Company's discontinued furniture business, which was sold in March
 1997, had revenues of $51.6 million in the first quarter of 1997 prior to the
 sale and nominal earnings for that period. As a result of the sale of the
 Company's furniture business assets (primarily inventory, property, plant and
 equipment), the Company received $69.0 million in cash, retained approximately
 $50.0 million in accounts receivable and retained certain liabilities. The final
 purchase price for the furniture business was subject to a post-closing
 adjustment based on the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement and in the first
 quarter of 1997, after completion of the sale, the Company recorded an
 additional loss on disposal of $22.5 million pre-tax.
 
 FOREIGN OPERATIONS
 
      Approximately 80% of the Company's business is conducted in U.S. dollars
 (including both domestic sales, U.S. dollar denominated export sales, primarily
 to certain Latin American markets, Asian sales and the majority of European
 sales). The Company's non-U.S. dollar denominated sales are made principally by
 subsidiaries in Europe, Japan and Mexico. Mexico reverted to a hyperinflationary
 status for accounting purposes in 1997; therefore, translation adjustments
 related to Mexican net monetary assets are included as a component of net
 earnings. Mexico is not expected to be considered hyperinflationary as of
 January 1, 1999.
 
      While Sunbeam's revenues generated in Asia have traditionally not been
 significant, economic instability in this region is expected to have a negative
 effect on Coleman's earnings. Economic instability and the political environment
 in Latin America have also affected sales in that region. It is anticipated that
 sales in and exports to these regions will continue to decline so long as the
 economic environments in those regions remain unsettled.
 
      On a limited basis, the Company selectively uses derivatives (foreign
 exchange option and forward contracts) to manage foreign exchange exposures that
 arise in the normal course of business. No derivative contracts are entered into
 for trading or speculative purposes. The use of derivatives did not have a
 material impact on the Company's financial results in 1998 and 1997. (See Note 3
 to the condensed consolidated financial statements.)
 
 SEASONALITY
 
      On a consolidated basis, the Company's sales have not traditionally
 exhibited substantial seasonality; however, sales have been strongest during the
 fourth quarter of the calendar year. Additionally, sales of Outdoor Cooking
 products are strongest in the first half of the year, while sales of Appliances
 and Personal Care and Comfort products are strongest in the second half of the
 year. Furthermore, sales of a number of the Company's traditional products,
 including warming blankets, vaporizers, humidifiers and grills may be impacted
 by unseasonable weather conditions. After considering the seasonality of the
 acquired entities, the Company's consolidated sales are not expected to exhibit
 substantial seasonality; however, sales are expected to be strongest during the
 second quarter of the calendar year. Additionally, sales of many products sold
 by the Company may be impacted by unseasonable weather conditions.
 
 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
      In order to finance the acquisitions of Coleman, First Alert and Signature
 Brands and to refinance substantially all of the indebtedness of the Company and
 the acquired entities, the Company consummated: (i) an offering (the "Offering")
 of Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2018 (the
 "Debentures") at a yield to maturity of 5% (approximately $2,014 million
 principal amount at maturity) in March 1998, which resulted in approximately
 $730 million of net proceeds and, (ii) entered into a revolving and term credit
 facility ("New Credit Facility").
 
      The Company was required to file a registration statement with the
 Securities and Exchange Commission to register the Debentures by June 23, 1998,
 which registration statement has not been filed. From June 23, 1998 until the
 day on which the registration statement is filed and declared effective, the
 Company is required to pay to the Debenture holders cash liquidated damages
 accruing, for each day during such period, at a rate per annum equal to 0.25%
 during the first 90 days and 0.50% thereafter multiplied by the total of the
 issue price of the Debentures plus the original issue discount thereon on such
 day. The Company made its first payment of approximately $525,000 to the
 Debenture holders on September 25, 1998. (See Note 3)
 
      The New Credit Facility provided for aggregate borrowings of up to $1.7
 billion pursuant to: (i) a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal
 amount of up to $400 million, maturing March 31, 2005; (ii) an $800 million term
 loan maturing on March 31, 2005, and (iii) a $500 million term loan maturing
 September 30, 2006. Interest accrues at a rate selected at the Company's option
 of: (i) the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus an agreed upon interest
 margin which varies depending upon the Company's leverage ratio, as defined, and
 other items or, (ii) the base rate of the administrative agent (generally the
 higher of the prime commercial lending rate of the administrative agent or the
 Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1%), plus an agreed upon interest margin which
 varies depending upon the Company's leverage ratio, as defined, and other items.
 The New Credit Facility contains certain covenants, including limitations on the
 ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to engage in certain transactions
 and the requirement to maintain certain financial covenants and ratios.
 
 
                                        23
 <PAGE>
 
      At June 30, 1998, the Company was not in compliance with the financial
 covenants and ratios required under the New Credit Facility. The Company and its
 lenders entered into an agreement dated June 30, 1998, which provided that
 compliance with the covenants would be waived through December 31, 1998.
 Borrowings under the New Credit Facility are secured by the Company's assets,
 including its stock interest in Coleman. Pursuant to an amendment dated October
 19, 1998, the Company is not required to comply with the original financial
 covenants and ratios under the New Credit Facility until April 10, 1999, but
 will be required to comply with an earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
 and amortization covenant, the amounts of which are to be determined, beginning
 February 1999. Concurrent with each of these amendments, interest margin was
 increased. The margin continues to increase monthly through March 1999 to a
 maximum of 400 basis points over LIBOR. At the end of November 1998, following
 the scheduled repayment of a portion of the term loan, the New Credit Facility
 was reduced to $1,698 million in total, of which approximately $1,421 million
 was outstanding and approximately $277 million was available. In addition, at
 the same time, the Company's cash balance available for debt repayment was
 approximately $22 million.
 
      The Company is working closely with its bank lenders in an effort to reach
 agreement on a further amendment to the New Credit Facility containing mutually
 acceptable revised financial covenants. There can be no assurance that such an
 amendment, or a further waiver of the existing financial covenants, will be
 entered into with the bank lenders by April 10, 1999. The failure to obtain such
 an amendment or further waiver would result in violation of the existing
 covenants, which would permit the bank lenders to accelerate the maturity of all
 outstanding borrowings under the New Credit Facility. Accordingly, the debt
 related to the New Credit Facility and all debt containing cross-default
 provisions is classified as current in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
 as of June 30, 1998.
 
      At June 30, 1998, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of
 $43.2 million. Cash used in operating activities during the first half of 1998
 was $217.6 million compared to $4.8 million in the first half of 1997. This
 increase is primarily attributable to lower earnings before non-cash charges and
 an increased investment in working capital. The majority of the increase in
 working capital is a result of higher inventory levels in 1998. Inventories
 increased $424.7 million from December 28, 1997, before consideration of the
 $84.0 million inventory reserve taken in the second quarter. This increase
 reflects $353.1 million of inventory acquired in the acquisitions, less a $38.1
 million decrease in the acquired entities' inventories after acquisition, and
 $109.7 million in higher inventory related to Sunbeam's household and grill
 products. Cash used in operating activities for the 1998 first half reflects
 proceeds of $84.0 million from the Company's revolving trade accounts receivable
 securitization program entered into in December 1997. Including the effect of
 the receivables securitization program, receivables increased $294.1 million
 from year-end 1997, reflecting $283.7 million in acquired receivables, and $10.4
 million, net, of increases in receivables from acquired entities partially
 offset by decreases in the levels of receivables held by Sunbeam at December 28,
 1997. The Company expects to continue to use the securitization program to
 finance a portion of its accounts receivable. Also contributing to the increase
 in working capital was a decrease of $22.9 million in accounts payable,
 excluding acquired payables. The Company anticipates using cash for operating
 activities in the remainder of the year, principally for losses incurred in
 operations, although this anticipated use of cash is not expected to be as
 significant as was incurred in the second quarter.
 
      Cash used in investing activities in the first half of 1998 reflects $379.2
 million for the acquisitions. In the first half of 1997, cash provided by
 investing activities reflected $84.7 million in proceeds from the sales of
 divested operations and other assets. Capital spending totaled $21.2 million in
 1998 and was primarily for several manufacturing efficiency initiatives,
 equipment and tooling for new products and management information systems
 hardware and software licenses. The new product capital spending principally
 related to the air and water products which were discontinued in the second
 quarter, grills and appliances, including irons, blenders and standmixers. As
 the Company completes its assessment of expected future performance of its
 business operations, valuation adjustments may be required for certain of the
 assets acquired in 1998. Capital spending in 1997 was $26.1 million and was
 primarily attributable to manufacturing capacity expansion and equipment to
 manufacture new products. The Company anticipates 1998 capital spending to be
 approximately 5% of sales, primarily related to new product introductions and
 manufacturing efficiency initiatives including rationalization of certain
 facilities.
 
      Cash provided by financing activities totaled $608.6 million in the first
 half of 1998 and reflects net proceeds from the Debentures of $729.6 million,
 the cancellation and repayment of all outstanding balances under the Company's
 $250 million September 1996 revolving credit facility, the repayment of certain
 debt acquired with the acquisitions and the early extinguishment of the $75.0
 million Hattiesburg industrial revenue bond. In addition, cash provided by
 financing activities includes $19.6 million of proceeds from the exercise of
 stock options. (See Note 3 to the condensed consolidated financial statements.)
 
      The Company expects to acquire the remaining equity interest in Coleman
 pursuant to a merger transaction in which the existing Coleman minority
 shareholders will receive approximately 6.7 million shares of common stock and
 approximately $87 million in cash. In addition, as a result of litigation
 related to the merger consideration, the Company has entered into a memorandum
 of understanding (subject to court approval) pursuant to which the holders of
 the remaining equity interest in Coleman will also receive five-year warrants to
 purchase 4.98 million shares of Sunbeam common stock at $7.00 per share. There
 can be no assurance that the court will approve the settlement as proposed.
 Although there can be no assurance, it is anticipated the Coleman merger will
 occur in the first half of fiscal 1999. (See Note 10 to the condensed
 consolidated financial statements.)
 
 
                                        24
 <PAGE>
 
      The Company believes its borrowing capacity under the New Credit Agreement,
 cash flow from the combined operations of the Company and its acquired
 companies, existing cash and cash equivalent balances, and its receivable
 securitization program will be sufficient to support working capital needs,
 capital spending, and debt service for the foreseeable future. However, if the
 Company is unable to satisfactorily amend the financial covenants and ratio
 requirements of the New Credit Facility or obtain a further waiver of the
 existing covenants and ratio requirements prior to April 10, 1999, the Company
 expects it would, at that time, be in default of the requirements under the New
 Credit Facility and, as noted above, the lenders could then require the
 repayment of all amounts then outstanding under the New Credit Facility.
 
 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 
      See Note 1 to the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements for
 a discussion of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 131,
 DISCLOSURES ABOUT SEGMENTS OF AN ENTERPRISE AND RELATED INFORMATION, SFAS No.
 133, ACCOUNTING FOR DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES, Statement of
 Position ("SOP") 98-1, ACCOUNTING FOR THE COSTS OF COMPUTER SOFTWARE DEVELOPED
 OR OBTAINED FOR INTERNAL USE and SOP 98-5, REPORTING ON THE COSTS OF START-UP
 ACTIVITIES, which are required to be adopted for periods beginning after
 December 15, 1997. The adoption of these standards is not expected to have a
 material effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial
 position, or cash flows, although actual charges incurred may be material due to
 Year 2000 issues, as discussed below.
 
 YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE AND OPERATING SYSTEMS ENHANCEMENTS
 
      The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of the Year 2000 on
 its operations, including the Coleman, First Alert and Signature Brands
 companies which were acquired by the Company in the spring of 1998. The Company
 established a Year 2000 Program Management Office in the third quarter of 1998
 to conduct such assessment with assistance from three consulting firms. The
 Company's assessment encompasses the Company's information technology functions
 along with the impact of the effects of noncompliance by its vendors, service
 providers, customers, and financial institutions. The assessment of the
 Company's information technology functions is substantially complete.
 Additionally, the Company is assessing the impact of noncompliance of embedded
 microprocessors in its products as well as equipment, such as manufacturing
 equipment, security and telephone systems and controls for lighting,
 heating/ventilation, and facility access.
 
      The Company relies on its information technology functions to perform many
 tasks that are critical to its operations. Significant transactions that could
 be impacted by Year 2000 noncompliance include, among others, purchases of
 materials, production management, order entry and fulfillment, and payroll
 processing. Systems and applications that have been identified by the Company to
 date as not currently Year 2000 compliant and which are critical to the
 Company's operations include its financial software systems, which process the
 order entry, purchasing, production management, general ledger, accounts
 receivable, and accounts payable functions, and critical applications in the
 Company's manufacturing and distribution facilities, such as the warehouse
 management application. The Company plans to complete corrective work with
 respect to the Company's systems by the second quarter of 1999 with final
 testing and implementation of such systems occurring in the second and third
 quarters of 1999. Management believes that, although there are significant
 systems that will need to be modified or replaced, the Company's information
 systems environment will be made Year 2000 compliant prior to January 1, 2000.
 The Company's failure to timely complete such corrective work could have a
 material adverse impact on the Company. The Company is not able to estimate
 possible lost profits arising from such failure.
 
      The Company is in the process of contacting its vendors and suppliers of
 products and services to determine their Year 2000 readiness and plans. This
 review includes third party providers to whom the Company has outsourced the
 processing of its cash receipt and cash disbursement transactions. The Company
 plans to complete this review during the first quarter of 1999. The failure of
 certain of these third party suppliers to become Year 2000 compliant could have
 a material adverse impact on the Company.
 
      The Company's preliminary assessment of the total costs to address and
 remedy Year 2000 issues and enhance its operating systems, including costs for
 the acquired companies, is $50 million. This estimate includes the costs of
 software and hardware modifications and replacements and fees to third party
 consultants, but excludes internal resources. The Company expects these
 expenditures to be financed through operating cash flows or borrowings, as
 applicable. Through June 30, 1998, the Company had expended approximately $3
 million related to new systems and remediation to address Year 2000 issues, of
 which the majority was recorded as capital expenditures. Of the total costs, it
 is anticipated that approximately 25% to 30% will be incurred by year-end 1998,
 with the remainder in 1999. A significant portion of these expenditures will
 enhance the Company's operating systems in addition to resolving the Year 2000
 issues. As the Company completes its assessment of the Year 2000 issues, the
 actual expenditures incurred or to be incurred may differ materially from the
 amounts shown above.
 
      After completing the assessment of the Year 2000 on its operations, the
 Company plans to establish a contingency plan for addressing any effects of the
 Year 2000 on its operations, whether due to noncompliance of the Company's
 systems or those of third parties. The Company expects to complete such
 contingency plan by September 30, 1999; such contingency plan will 
 
 
                                        25
 <PAGE>
 
 address alternative processes, such as manual procedures to replace those
 processed by noncompliant systems, potential alternative service providers, and
 plans to address compliance issues as they arise. Subject to the nature of the
 systems and applications which are not made Year 2000 compliant, the impact of
 such non-compliance on the Company's operations could be material if appropriate
 contingency plans cannot be developed prior to January 1, 2000.
 
 OTHER MATTERS
 
      See Notes 3, 6, 10 and 11 of Notes to the condensed consolidated financial
 statements for information relating to, among other matters, litigation,
 financing and potential asset impairment issues.
 
 RESTATEMENT OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JUNE 29, 1997
 COMPARED TO THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 1996
 
      The results of operations previously reported for the three months ended
 June 29, 1997 as compared with the three months ended June 30, 1996 generally
 overstated sales in 1997 and understated the level of expenses incurred in that
 year. Gross margin was previously reported to have improved 7.3 percentage
 points from the level achieved in the second quarter of 1996. After restatement,
 the gross margin improvement was 1.8 percentage points. Operating income was
 previously reported to have improved $33.8 million or 369% from 1996's second
 quarter to the second quarter of 1997. After reflecting the results of the
 restatement, operating earnings were $16.8 million for the second quarter of
 1997, an improvement of $7.7 million or 84% from the prior year. On November 12,
 1998, the Company filed a Form 10-K/A setting forth the restated financial
 statements for December 28, 1997 and December 29. 1996, and the fiscal years
 then ended. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
 Results of Operations for the fiscal years 1997 and 1996 as well as 1996 and
 1995 are contained therein. (See Note 8 to the condensed consolidated financial
 statements.)
 
 RESTATEMENT OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 29, 1997
 COMPARED TO THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 1996
 
      The results of operations previously reported for the six months ended June
 29, 1997 as compared with the six months ended June 30, 1996 generally
 overstated sales in 1997 and understated the level of expenses incurred in 1997.
 Gross margin was previously reported to have improved 6.6 percentage points from
 the level achieved in 1996. After restatement, the gross margin improvement was
 2.0 percentage points. Operating income for the first half of 1997 was
 previously reported to have improved $53.0 million to 14.4% of sales, up 9.3
 percentage points from 1996's first half results. After reflecting the results
 of the restatement, operating earnings were $33.9 million for the first half of
 1997, an improvement of $9.2 million from the prior year. As a percent of sales,
 operating earnings, after restatement, were 6.5%, an improvement of 1.4
 percentage points versus the first six months of 1996.
 
 CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS
 
      Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute
 "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
 Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as the same may be amended from time to time
 (herein the "Act") and in releases made by the Securities and Exchange
 Commission ("SEC") from time to time. Such forward-looking statements involve
 known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the
 actual results, performance, or achievements of the Company to be materially
 different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or
 implied by such forward-looking statements. When used in this Quarterly Report
 on Form 10-Q, the words "estimate," "project," "intend," "expect" and similar
 expressions, when used in connection with the Company, including its management,
 are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking
 statements were based on various factors and were derived utilizing numerous
 important assumptions and other important factors that could cause actual
 results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These
 Cautionary Statements are being made pursuant to the Act, with the intention of
 obtaining the benefits of the "Safe Harbor" provisions of the Act. The Company
 cautions investors that any forward-looking statements made by the Company are
 not guarantees of future performance. Important assumptions and other important
 factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the
 forward-looking statements with respect to the Company include, but are not
 limited to risks associated with (i) high leverage, (ii) Sunbeam's ability to
 enter into an amendment to its credit agreement containing financial covenants
 which it and its bank lenders find mutually acceptable, or to continue to obtain
 waivers from its bank lenders with respect to its compliance with the existing
 covenants contained in such agreement, and to continue to have access to its
 revolving credit facility, (iii) Sunbeam's ability to integrate the recently
 acquired Coleman, Signature Brands and First Alert companies and expenses
 associated with such integration, (iv) Sunbeam's sourcing of products from
 international vendors, including the ability to select reliable vendors and to
 avoid delays in shipments, (v) Sunbeam's ability to maintain and increase market
 share for its products at anticipated margins, (vi) Sunbeam's ability to
 successfully introduce new products and to provide on-time delivery and a
 satisfactory level of customer service, (vii) changes in laws and regulations,
 including changes in tax laws, accounting standards, environmental laws,
 occupational, health and safety laws, (viii) access to foreign markets together
 with foreign economic conditions, including currency fluctuations, (ix)
 uncertainty as to the effect of competition in existing and potential future
 lines of business, (x) fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw
 materials and/or products, (xi) changes in the availability and relative costs
 of labor, (xii) effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs, (xiii)
 economic uncertainty in Japan, Korea and other Asian countries, as well as in
 Mexico, Venezuela, 
 
 
                                        26
 <PAGE>
 
 and other Latin American countries, (xiv) product quality, including excess
 warranty costs, product liability expenses and costs of product recalls, (xv)
 weather conditions which can have an unfavorable impact upon sales of Sunbeam's
 products, (xvi) the numerous lawsuits against the Company and the SEC
 investigation into the Company's accounting practices and policies, and
 uncertainty regarding the Company's available coverage on its directors' and
 officers' liability insurance, (xvii) the possibility of a recession in the
 United States or other countries resulting in a decrease in consumer demands for
 the Company's products, (xviii) failure of the Company and/or its suppliers of
 goods or services to timely complete the remediation of computer systems to
 effectively process Year 2000 information, and (xix) any material error in
 evaluating historical levels of retail inventories and the related impact on
 operations of changes therein. Other factors and assumptions not included in the
 foregoing may cause the Company's actual results to materially differ from those
 projected. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking
 statements or these Cautionary Statements to reflect actual results or changes
 in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
                                        27
 <PAGE>
 
 
 PART II - OTHER INFORMATION
 
