         OF OPERATIONS
 
      The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the
 accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months
 ended March 31, 1998 and March 30, 1997.
 
      Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 1998 were $244.3 million, a
 decrease of $9.2 million (3.6%) from the comparable period of the prior year.
 First quarter 1998 sales included $14.8 million of Coleman's sales from the
 completion of Step One of the Coleman acquisition on March 30, 1998 as further
 described below and in Note 2 to the condensed consolidated financial
 statements. Sales for the first quarter of 1997 included approximately $14.4
 million from certain divested product lines (time and temperature products and
 Counselor/registered trademark/ and Borg/registered trademark/ branded scales)
 and inventory liquidations from the Company's 1996 SKU rationalization program.
 Excluding these items, sales declined 4.0 % from the first quarter of 1997.
 
      Domestic sales (excluding Coleman), which represented approximately 74% of
 total sales during the quarter, declined 15.4%. While domestic sales across all
 of the Company's product categories (Appliances, Personal Care & Comfort,
 Health at Home, Away from Home and Outdoor Cooking) fell short of 1997 due to
 lower price realization and unit volume declines, the majority of the sales
 decline was in the Outdoor Cooking category and was as a result of lower than
 anticipated retail sell-through during the early stages of the 1998 retail
 selling season for these products. The Company initiated a $7 million national
 advertising campaign for Outdoor Cooking products late during the first quarter
 of 1998 to further stimulate retail-sell through during the remainder of the
 season, including the peak mid-May to July 4 period. To ensure the continuation
 of improved customer service levels during the remainder of the season, the
 Company sold approximately $29 million of Outdoor Cooking products on a "bill
 and hold" basis during the first quarter. While selected point-of-sale data for
 Outdoor Cooking products from certain major customers in April 1998 has been
 generally favorable, it now appears unlikely that the Company will recoup
 certain lost volume through incremental business generated during the remainder
 of the 1998 selling season. Based on the current sales outlook and existing
 retail inventory levels for Outdoor Cooking products, the Company now
 anticipates experiencing a sales decline in this category during the second
 quarter of 1998 as compared to the prior year.
 
      International sales, which represented 26% of total revenues (excluding
 Coleman) during the first quarter, grew 14.0% over the first quarter of 1997.
 This sales growth was driven primarily by improved distribution and new product
 sales in Latin America, including Mexico and Venezuela, offset by declines in
 sales of Outdoor Cooking products in Europe and Canada.
 
      The gross margin percentage for the first quarter of 1998 decreased 13.3
 percentage points to 13.4%. The margin decline was primarily driven by margin
 erosion in the Company's Appliance, Health at Home and Outdoor Cooking
 categories. In the Appliance and Health at Home categories, the margin erosion
 was due to a decline in overall unit price realization from 1997 levels. In the
 Outdoor Cooking category, the gross margin decline was attributable to an
 adverse product sales mix, a failure to realize anticipated price realization,
 delays in the launch of certain higher price-point gas grills and higher
 initial warranty costs on a new grill model. The adverse product sales mix was
 a result of experiencing low retail sell-through of higher margin grills during
 the first quarter and a decline in sales of higher margin accessory items due
 to certain lost retail placements.
 
      The Company continuously monitors future production plans at all of its
 facilities based on current inventory levels and anticipated new demand. The
 Company is currently evaluating whether to begin the second quarter season-end
 ramp down of production at its Neosho Outdoor Cooking products facility earlier
 than previously planned. If such action is taken, future operating results for
 the 1998 grill season would be adversely impacted due to unabsorbed fixed
 factory overhead during the second and third quarters and potential
 unanticipated inventory carrying costs.
 
      The Company experienced an operating loss of $4.8 million during the first
 quarter of 1998 (excluding the impact of the $31.2 million one-time special
 compensation charge described below) compared to operating earnings of $34.8
 million in 1997. This operating loss was substantially all related
 
                                        10
 <PAGE>
 
 to the decline in gross margins and lower sales. First quarter 1998 selling,
 general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses included a one-time special charge
 of $31.2 million related to new employment agreements with the Company's
 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and two other senior officers and $3.7
 million related to Coleman's operations for March 30, 1998 and March 31, 1998.
 SG&A expense excluding these items was $33.9 million, essentially even with the
 first quarter of 1997. Lower administrative costs in 1998 were offset by higher
 distribution and warehousing costs due to increased levels of inventory.
 
      Interest expense and other, net increased from $2.1 million in the first
 quarter of 1997 to $7.4 million in 1998 primarily related to higher borrowing
 levels in the current year for increased working capital and interest expense
 related to the Company's zero coupon convertible senior subordinated debentures
 issued on March 19, 1998 at a 5% yield to maturity that netted approximately
 $730 million of proceeds to the Company as further described in Note 3 to the
 condensed consolidated financial statements. In addition, the Company
 experienced higher foreign exchange losses in the first quarter of 1998 related
 to its Mexican operations and Coleman's operations in Japan.
 
      The effective income tax rate benefit attributable to the operating loss
 for the first quarter of 1998 is 10.3% as a result of the non-deductibility of
 the $31.2 million special compensation charge for the new employment contracts
 described above.
 
      The Company's earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations,
 excluding the $.36 per share special compensation charge, was a loss of $.09
 per share versus earnings per share from continuing operations in 1997 of $.24.
 In March 1998, the Company prepaid a $75.0 million 7.85% industrial revenue
 bond related to its Hattiesburg facility originally due in 2009. In connection
 with the early extinguishment of this debt, the Company recognized a $5.6
 million after tax extraordinary charge ($.07 per share) in the first quarter of
 1998.
 
      The Company's discontinued furniture operations, which were sold in March
 1997, had revenues of $51.6 million in the first quarter of 1997 prior to the
 sale and break-even earnings. The sale of the Company's furniture business
 assets (primarily inventory, property, plant and equipment) was completed in
 March 1997. The Company received $69 million in cash and retained accounts
 receivable related to the furniture business of approximately $50.0 million as
 of the closing date. The final purchase price for the furniture business was
 subject to a post-closing adjustment which resulted in an additional loss on
 disposal of $13.7 million, net of income tax benefits, in the first quarter of
 1997.
 
 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
      As further described in Note 2 to the condensed consolidated financial
 statements, on March 30, 1998 the Company completed the acquisition of CLN
 Holdings, Inc. ("CLN Holdings") in exchange for 14,099,749 shares of the
 Company's common stock and cash of approximately $160 million, financed from
 proceeds of the zero coupon convertible senior subordinated debentures
 discussed above. As a result of the acquisition of CLN Holdings, the Company
 became the indirect owner of approximately 80.9% of the total number of then
 outstanding shares of The Coleman Company, Inc. The Company expects to complete
 the acquisition of the remaining shares of Coleman from the minority
 shareholders in the summer of 1998 in exchange for approximately 6.7 million
 shares of Sunbeam stock and $87 million in cash.
 
      The Coleman acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of
 accounting and accordingly, the condensed consolidated balance sheet at March
 31, 1998 reflects the initial allocation of purchase price based on the fair
 value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and the condensed consolidated
 statement of operations includes the operating results for Coleman for March 30
 and March 31, 1998.
 
      Cash used in operating activities during the first quarter of 1998 was
 $143.9 million compared to $22.7 million in the prior year. This increase is
 primarily attributable to lower earnings before non-cash charges in 1998 and
 increased investments in working capital, including higher accounts receivable
 due
 
                                        11
 <PAGE>
 
 to timing of sales during the quarter and extended payment terms under early
 buy programs and higher inventories in anticipation of increases in sales that
 did not materialize.
 
      Cash used in investing activities reflects the acquisition of CLN
 Holdings, net of cash acquired, of $160.6 million during the first quarter of
 1998. In 1997, cash provided by investing activities reflected $70.4 million in
 proceeds from the sale of assets, businesses and product categories determined
 to be non-core to the Company's ongoing operations.
 
      Cash provided by financing activities totaled $456.1 million in 1998 and
 reflects net proceeds of $729.6 million from the zero coupon convertible
 subordinated debentures, the cancellation of and repayment of all outstanding
 balances under the Company's $250 million September 1996 revolving credit
 facility, the repayment of certain Coleman debt and the early extinguishment of
 the $75.0 million Hattiesburg bond. In addition, cash provided by financing
 activities includes $25 million of financing fees related to the Company's new
 $1.7 billion revolving and term credit facility ("New Credit Facility") as
 further described in Note 3 to the condensed consolidated financial statements
 and $19 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options.
 
      In April 1998, the Company drew $715 million of term loans under the New
 Credit Facility to fund the acquisitions of Signature Brands and First Alert as
 further described in Note 2 to the condensed consolidated financial statements
 and to refinance certain debt of the acquired companies. The Company drew an
 additional $550 million of term loans and $50 million of revolving loans in May
 1998 to refinance the prepayment of certain CLN Holdings notes. In connection
 with these debt refinancings, the Company expects to record a pre-tax
 extraordinary charge of approximately $100 million in the second quarter of
 1998.
 
      The Company believes its existing cash and cash equivalent balances as
 well as its New Credit Facility will be sufficient to finance the completion of
 the Coleman acquisition, the restructuring and integration of Coleman,
 Signature Brands and First Alert into Sunbeam, and ongoing debt service and
 working capital requirements for the foreseeable future.
 
 CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS
 
      Certain of the information contained herein may contain "forward-looking
 statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
 of 1995, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Act") and in
 releases made by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") from time to
 time. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks,
 uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results,
 performance, or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any
 future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such
 forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "intend," "expect"
 and similar expressions, when used in connection with the Company, are intended
 to identify forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are
 based on various factors and derived utilizing numerous important assumptions
 and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ
 materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These Cautionary
 Statements are being made pursuant to the Act, with the intention of obtaining
 the benefits of the "Safe Harbor" provisions of the Act. The Company cautions
 investors that any forward-looking statements made by the Company are not
 guarantees of future performance and that actual results may differ materially
 from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors,
 including but not limited to those set forth below. Important assumptions and
 other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
 from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to:
 (i) risks associated with leverage, including cost increases due to rising
 interest rates; (ii) risks associated with Sunbeam's ability to continue its
 strategy of growth through acquisitions; (iii) risks associated with Sunbeam's
 ability to successfully integrate all of its recent acquisitions; (iv) risks
 associated with Sunbeam's ability to increase revenues by leveraging sales of
 Sunbeam, Signature Brands and First Alert products through Coleman's existing
 distribution channels, and by leveraging sales of Coleman, Signature Brands and
 First Alert products through Sunbeam's existing distribution channels,
 particularly in foreign markets; (v) risks associated with Sunbeam's ability to
 realize the anticipated cost
 
                                        12
 <PAGE>
 
 savings of its restructuring program, including the timing thereof; (vi) risks
 associated with Sunbeam's ability to implement its planned divestitures,
 including the amount of the net proceeds to be realized and the timing thereof;
 (vii) Sunbeam's ability to make effective acquisitions in the future and to
 successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into existing operations and
 the risks associated with such newly acquired businesses; (viii) Sunbeam's and
 Coleman's ability to maintain and increase market share for their respective
 products at anticipated margins; (ix) Sunbeam's ability to successfully
 introduce new products and to provide on-time delivery and a high level of
 customer service; (x) changes in laws and regulations, including changes in tax
 rates, accounting standards, environmental laws, occupational, health and
 safety laws; (xi) access to foreign markets together with foreign economic
 conditions, including currency fluctuations; (xii) uncertainty as to the effect
 of competition in Sunbeam's or Coleman's existing and potential future lines of
 business; (xiii) fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials
 and/or products in relation to historical levels; (xiv) changes in the
 availability and relative costs of labor; (xv) effectiveness of advertising and
 marketing programs; (xvi) the effect of, or changes in, general economic
 conditions; (xvii) economic uncertainty in Japan, Korea and other Asian
 countries, as well as Mexico, Venezuela and other Latin American countries;
 (xviii) weather conditions that are adverse to the specific businesses of
 Sunbeam and Coleman; and (xix) risks related to product quality, including
 excess warranty costs, product liability expense and costs of possible product
 recall. Other factors and assumptions not identified above may also be involved
 in the derivation of forward-looking statements, and the failure of such other
 assumptions to be realized as well as other factors may also cause actual
 results to differ materially from those projected. The Company assumes no
 obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect actual
 results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such
 forward-looking statements.
 
 YEAR 2000
 
      The Company has assessed and continues to assess the impact of the Year
 2000 computer issues on its operations, including the development and
 implementation of project plans and cost estimates required to make its
 information systems infrastructure Year 2000 compliant. The Company recently
 completed acquisitions whereby it obtained control of Coleman, Signature Brands
 and First Alert and is currently completing preliminary plans for the
 integration of the computer systems of these acquired companies into Sunbeam.
 Based on preliminary estimates, the Company believes that anticipated spending
 necessary to integrate the computer systems of these acquired companies into
 Sunbeam systems and upgrade all such systems to become Year 2000 compliant will
 be approximately $25 million, however the Company has not yet completed
 detailed analysis and integration plans with respect to such acquired
 companies.
 
 OTHER
 
      On May 11, 1998 the Company announced its preliminary restructuring and
 integration plan for Coleman, Signature Brands and First Alert. In connection
 with these activities, the Company expects to incur certain cash costs during
 the remainder of 1998 and 1999. Costs related to the closure and exit of
 acquired facilities and businesses to be divested will generally be reflected
 as an adjustment to the purchase price of the each of Coleman, Signature Brands
 and First Alert in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue ("EITF")
 No. 95-3, RECOGNITION OF LIABILITIES IN CONNECTION WITH A PURCHASE BUSINESS
 COMBINATION while integration costs not specifically related to the closure and
 exit of acquired facilities will be reflected as charges to future operating
 results when incurred. Total one-time costs in connection with the
 restructuring and integration of the acquisitions, including those reflected as
 an adjustment to the purchase price in accordance with EITF 95-3, are expected
 to total approximately $210 million pre-tax including cash costs of
 approximately $125 million.
 
      On May 11, 1998 the Company also announced the closure of its appliance
 manufacturing facilities located in Mexico City and Acuna, Mexico and the
 outsourcing of the manufacture of certain components and finished products
 later this year. In connection with these closures and outsourcing initiatives,
 the Company expects to record cash and non-cash special charges during the
 second and third quarters of approximately $65 million to $70 million primarily
 related to severance costs,
 
                                        13
 <PAGE>
 
 estimated losses on disposal of excess equipment and inventory and relocation
 costs for equipment and tooling. The cash portion of the charge is estimated to
 be approximately 30% of the total and the majority of the charge is expected to
 be recorded in the second quarter of 1998.
 
 PART II. OTHER INFORMATION
 
