         OF OPERATIONS
 
          The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the
 accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and the related
 footnotes included in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q/A, as well as the
 consolidated financial statements, related footnotes and management's discussion
 and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the Company's
 Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 1998.
 
 1998 ACQUISITIONS
 
          On March 30, 1998, the Company, through a wholly-owned subsidiary,
 acquired approximately 81% of the total number of then outstanding shares of
 common stock of Coleman from a subsidiary of M&F, in exchange for 14,099,749
 shares of the Company's common stock and approximately $160 million in cash. In
 addition, the Company assumed approximately $1,016 million in debt. Immediately
 thereafter, as a result of the exercise of employee stock options, Sunbeam's
 indirect beneficial ownership of Coleman decreased to approximately 79% of the
 total number of the outstanding shares of Coleman common stock. The Company's
 agreement for the acquisition of the remaining publicly held Coleman shares
 pursuant to a merger transaction provides that the remaining Coleman
 shareholders will receive:
 
          o   approximately 6.7 million shares of Sunbeam common stock (0.5677
              share for each outstanding Coleman share); and,
 
          o   approximately $87 million in cash ($6.44 for each outstanding
              Coleman share and the cash-out of unexercised Coleman options for
              an amount equal to the difference between $27.50 per share and the
              exercise price of such options).
 
 The Company expects to complete the Coleman merger during the second half of
 1999, although there can be no assurance that the merger will occur during that
 time. See Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for
 information regarding the settlement claims relating to the Coleman acquisition,
 the terms of which provide for the issuance at the time of the merger of
 warrants to purchase up to 4.98 million shares of Sunbeam's common stock at $7
 per share.
 
          On October 21, 1998, the Company announced that it had entered into a
 Memorandum of Understanding to settle, subject to Court approval, class action
 claims made by minority shareholders of Coleman relating to the Coleman merger.
 Under the terms of the proposed settlement, if approved by the Court, the
 Company will issue to the Coleman public shareholders, and plaintiff's counsel
 in this action, warrants to purchase up to 4.98 million shares of the Company's
 common stock at a cash exercise price of $7.00 per share, subject to certain
 anti-dilution provisions. These warrants would generally have the same terms as
 the warrants issued to a subsidiary of M&F and will be issued when the Coleman
 merger is consummated. Issuance of these warrants will be accounted for as
 additional purchase consideration. There can be no assurance that the Court will
 approve the settlement as proposed.
 
          On April 6, 1998, the Company completed the cash acquisitions of First
 Alert, a leading manufacturer of smoke and carbon monoxide detectors, and
 Signature Brands, a leading manufacturer of consumer and professional products.
 The First Alert and the Signature Brands acquisitions were valued at
 approximately $182 million (including $133 million of cash and $49 million of
 assumed debt) and $255 million (reflecting cash paid, including the required
 retirement or defeasance of debt), respectively.
 
          The acquisitions were recorded under the purchase method of accounting
 and accordingly, the financial position and results of operations of each
 acquired entity are included in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 from the respective dates of acquisition. The purchase prices of the acquired
 entities have been allocated to individual assets acquired and liabilities
 assumed based on estimates of fair values (determined by independent appraisals)
 at the dates of acquisition.
 
 THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 1999 COMPARED TO THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 1998
 
          Results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 1999 include
  the results of the three acquired companies for the entire period as compared
  to results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 1998, which only
  included the results of Coleman from March 30, 1998. The acquired entities
  generated net sales of $347.8 million for the three months ended March 31,
  1999, with a corresponding gross margin of $99.9 million, or 28.7% of net
  sales. Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") costs recorded by the
  acquired entities were $84.7 million in the period, yielding operating income
  of $15.2 million. Results for the first quarter of 1998 included net sales from
  Coleman of approximately $15 million, with a corresponding gross margin of
  approximately $4 million, and SG&A expenses of approximately $4 million.
 
          For the acquired entities, net sales for the three months ended March
 31, 1999 were approximately $30 million higher than their results for the full
 first quarter a year ago. This increase was attributable to increased net sales
 at Coleman (approximately $26 million) and Signature Brands (approximately $5
 million), partially offset by a decrease in net sales at First Alert
 (approximately $1 million). Excluding the revenue of Coleman's safety and
 security business and spa business, both of which were sold in 1998, Coleman's
 net sales in the first three months of 1999 would have been approximately $47
 million higher than the same period in 1998. The increase in Coleman net sales
 is reflective of strong retail replenishment demand in its outdoor recreation
 products as compared with unusually weak retail replenishment demand in the
 first quarter of 1998. Additionally, increased generator revenues attributable
 to increased awareness of power shortages from poor weather conditions and other
 events contributed to the higher net sales. Excluding: (i)
 
                                        18
 <PAGE>
 
 the effects of purchase accounting of approximately $9 million recognized in
 1999; (ii) acquisition costs of approximately $18 million which were incurred in
 the first quarter of 1998; and (iii) approximately $3 million of costs recorded
 in 1999 related to Year 2000 compliance efforts, operating profit for these
 three companies improved by approximately $36 million as compared to the same
 period in the prior year, resulting primarily from higher net sales and a
 reduction in expenses largely attributable to reduced headcount and the
 centralization of certain management and administration functions, resulting
 from the acquisition by Sunbeam.
 
          Consolidated net sales for the three months ended March 31, 1999 were
 $523.9 million, an increase of $276.3 million versus the three months ended
 March 31, 1998. After excluding $347.8 million of net sales generated by the
 acquired entities in the 1999 period and approximately $15 million in the 1998
 period, as discussed above, net sales of $176.1 million decreased approximately
 24% from net sales of $233.0 million in 1998. The Company believes the decrease
 in product sales were largely driven by increases in retail inventory levels
 from channel loading which took place in the first quarter of 1998, but not in
 the 1999 period. The adverse effect of the 1998 channel loading was partially
 offset by lower estimated provisions for customer returns and customer
 allowances of approximately $7 million.
 
          Domestic sales, excluding the acquired companies, declined
 approximately 15% or $26 million from 1998. The Company believes this sales
 decline is attributable to the channel loading that took place in the first
 quarter of 1998 versus no similar loading in the same period in 1999. The
 channel loading that took place in 1998 led to relatively lower sales of
 appliances, primarily blenders, breadmakers, handmixers and irons in 1999, as
 well as lower sales of outdoor cooking products. Partially offsetting the
 adverse effects of channel loading was a benefit from reduced costs in 1999 from
 customer returns and allowances.
 
          International sales, excluding the acquired companies, represented 17%
 of net sales for 1999 and decreased approximately $31 million as compared with
 the net sales for the same period a year ago. The Company believes this sales
 decline was largely attributable to the previously discussed impact of
 increasing retail inventory levels in the first quarter of 1998. Sales were also
 adversely impacted in 1999 by a decision to stop selling to certain export
 distributors in Latin America. Additionally, poor economic conditions in that
 region contributed to lower sales in 1999.
 
          Excluding the effect of the gross margin generated from the inclusion
 of the acquired entities' operations of $99.9 million in 1999 and approximately
 $4 million in 1998, as discussed above, gross margin was $23.2 million or 13.2%
 of sales for 1999 versus a gross margin of $29.7 million or 12.7% of net sales
 for 1998. Lower sales volume and unfavorable manufacturing efficiencies
 resulting from lower production levels in 1999 accounted for approximately $18
 million of the change between years. This was partially offset by a lower
 relative rate of product returns, reduced customer allowances of approximately
 $7 million, and improved product mix of approximately $2 million during the
 first quarter of 1999 as compared to the same period in 1998.
 
          Excluding the effects of: (i) $84.7 million of SG&A charges in 1999 and
 approximately $4 million in 1998 resulting from the inclusion of the acquired
 entities; (ii) approximately $31 million of 1998 compensation expense recorded
 in connection with new employment agreements with the three former senior
 officers; (iii) a $3.0 million benefit in 1998 from the reversal of reserves no
 longer required, and (iv) $5.3 million of costs recorded in the 1999 period
 related to Year 2000 compliance efforts, SG&A expenses were approximately $47.9
 million in the first quarter of 1999, 22.0% higher than the same period in 1998.
 This increase of approximately $9 million is primarily due to an increase in
 corporate administrative costs of approximately $5 million, reflecting
 additional personnel and related relocation, travel and related costs and
 increases in postretirement benefit costs. Increases in insurance and higher
 costs associated with outside services account for the remainder of the increase
 in SG&A.
 
          Operating results for the first quarters of 1999 and 1998 for the
 Sunbeam business before the 1998 acquisitions on a comparable basis as described
 above, were a loss of $24.7 million in 1999 and a loss of $9.6 million in 1998.
 On the same basis, operating margins as a percent of net sales decreased to a
 loss of 15.0% from a loss of 4.1% in the prior year. This change resulted from
 the factors discussed above.
 
          Interest expense increased from $5.1 million in the first quarter of
 1998 to $41.9 million in the first quarter of 1999 primarily related to higher
 borrowing levels in 1999 resulting from borrowings for the acquisitions that
 were outstanding for the entire quarter.
 
          Other expense, net of $0.8 million for the first three months of 1999
 included approximately $1.0 million relating to liquidating damages expensed
 related to holders of the Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Subordinated Debentures
 due 2018 (the "Debentures") (see Note 3 to the condensed consolidated financial
 statements), partially offset by favorable foreign exchange. Other expense, net
 of $3.2 million for the first three months of 1998 primarily represents foreign
 exchange losses, largely arising from Sunbeam's operations in Mexico.
 
          The minority interest reported in 1999 relates to the minority interest
 held in Coleman by minority shareholders.
 
          The Company provided for deferred tax expense in 1999 primarily due to
 taxable income in foreign jurisdictions. Deferred tax assets resulting from
 operating losses, incurred predominantly in domestic jurisdictions, were
 recorded and valuation allowances were established for substantially all such
 deferred tax assets. The Company's losses and related valuation allowances
 caused the reported tax rate to differ from the statutory rate.
 
          On July 12, 1999, the Company acquired 3,000,000 shares of a newly
 created series of Coleman voting preferred stock for an aggregate purchase price
 of approximately $31 million. These shares, together with the shares of Coleman
 common stock the Company owns, enable Sunbeam to exercise 80.01% of the total
 voting power of Coleman's outstanding capital stock as of July 12, 1999. This
 class of preferred stock was created by Coleman and acquired by the Company in
 order to enable Coleman and the Company to file
 
                                        19
 <PAGE>
 
 consolidated federal income tax returns, and in certain jurisdictions,
 consolidated state income tax returns, prior to the consummation of the Coleman
 merger. In connection with the issuance of the shares of preferred stock, the
 Company entered into a tax sharing agreement with Coleman, pursuant to which
 Coleman will pay to Sunbeam amounts equal to the federal and state income taxes
 that would have been payable by Coleman had Coleman not been included in the
 consolidated income tax return of the Company. The net proceeds from the
 issuance of the shares by Coleman of its voting preferred stock to Coleman
 Worldwide were used by Coleman to make a partial repayment of loans outstanding
 from Sunbeam under the Intercompany Note. (See Note 10 to the Condensed
 Consolidated Financial Statements.) In 1998, the Company prepaid an industrial
 revenue bond related to its Hattiesburg facility. In connection with this early
 extinguishment of debt, the Company recognized an extraordinary charge of $8.6
 million, consisting primarily of redemption premiums ($7.8 million) and
 unamortized deferred financing costs ($0.8 million).
 
 FOREIGN OPERATIONS
 
          Approximately 75% of the Company's business is conducted in U.S.
  dollars (including both domestic sales, U.S. dollar denominated export sales,
  primarily to certain Latin American markets, Asian sales and the majority of
  European sales). The Company's non-U.S. dollar denominated sales are made
  principally by subsidiaries in Europe, Canada, Japan, Latin America and Mexico.
  Mexico reverted to a hyperinflationary status for accounting purposes in 1997;
  therefore, translation adjustments related to Mexican net monetary assets were
  included as a component of net (loss) earnings. Mexico is not considered
  hyperinflationary as of January 1, 1999. This change in Mexico's
  hyperinflationary status is not expected to have a material effect on the
  Company's financial results. Translation adjustments resulting from the
  Company's non-U.S. denominated subsidiaries have not had a material impact on
  the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
          While revenues generated in Asia have traditionally not been
 significant, economic instability in this region is expected to have a negative
 effect on earnings. Economic instability and the political environment in Latin
 America have also affected sales in that region. It is anticipated that sales in
 and exports to these regions will continue to be impacted so long as the
 economic environments in those regions remain unsettled.
 
          On a limited basis, the Company selectively uses derivatives (foreign
 exchange option and forward contracts) to manage foreign exchange exposures that
 arise in the normal course of business. No derivative contracts are entered into
 for trading or speculative purposes. The use of derivatives has not had a
 material impact on the Company's financial results.
 
 SEASONALITY
 
          Sunbeam's consolidated sales are not expected to exhibit substantial
 seasonality; however, sales are expected to be strongest during the second
 quarter of the calendar year. Furthermore, sales of a number of products,
 including warming blankets, vaporizers, humidifiers, grills, First Alert
 products, camping and generator products may be impacted by unseasonable weather
 conditions.
 
 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
 DEBT INSTRUMENTS
 
          In order to finance the acquisition of Coleman, First Alert and
 Signature Brands and to refinance substantially all of the indebtedness of the
 Company and the three acquired companies, the Company consummated an offering in
 March 1998 of zero coupon debentures having a yield to maturity of 5%
 (approximately $2,014 million principal amount at maturity), which resulted in
 approximately $730 million of net proceeds and borrowed about $1,325 million
 under its new bank credit facility.
 
          The debentures are exchangeable for shares of the Company 's common
 stock at an initial conversion rate of 6.575 shares for each $1,000 principal
 amount at maturity of the debentures, subject to adjustments upon occurrence of
 specified events. The debentures are subordinated in right of payment to all
 existing and future senior indebtedness of the Company. The debentures are not
 redeemable by the Company prior to March 25, 2003. On or after such date, the
 debentures are redeemable for cash with at least 30 days notice, at the option
 of the Company. The Company is required to purchase debentures at the option of
 the holder as of March 25, 2003, March 25, 2008 and March 25, 2013, at purchase
 prices equal to the issue price plus accrued original discount to such dates.
 Sunbeam may, at its option, elect to pay any such purchase price in cash or
 common stock or any combination thereof. However, the bank credit facility
 prohibits the Company from redeeming or repurchasing debentures for cash. The
 Company was required to file a registration statement with the SEC to register
 the debentures by June 23, 1998. This registration statement was filed on
 February 4, 1999 and the SEC has not declared the registration statement
 effective. The Company 's failure to file the registration statement by June 23,
 1998 did not constitute default under the terms of the debentures. As part of
 the normal review process by the SEC, a number of comments have been made by the
 staff of the Division of Corporation Finance relating to the registration
 statement and the restated 1996 and 1997 financial statements included therein.
 The Company has filed amendments to this registration statement. From June 23,
 1998 until the registration statement is declared effective, the Company is
 required to pay to the debenture holders cash liquidated damages accruing, for
 each day during such period, at a rate per annum equal to 0.25% during the first
 90 days and 0.50% thereafter multiplied by the total of the issue price of the
 debentures plus the original issue discount thereon on such day. The Company
 made its first payment of approximately $500,000 to the debenture holders on
 September 25, 1998 and an additional $2 million was paid on March 25, 1999. An
 additional cash payment of
 
                                        20
 <PAGE>
 
 approximately $2 million, representing the Company's liability to debenture
 holders through June 30, 1999, was paid on September 25, 1999.
 
          Concurrent with the acquisitions, the Company replaced its $250 million
 syndicated unsecured five-year revolving credit facility with the bank credit
 facility. The bank credit facility provided for aggregate borrowings of up to
 $1.7 billion and in addition to other customary covenants, required the Company
 to maintain specified consolidated leverage, interest coverage and fixed charge
 coverage ratios as of the end of each fiscal quarter occurring after March 31,
 1998 and on or prior to the latest stated maturity date for any of the
 borrowings under the bank credit facility.
 
          As a result of, among other things, its operating losses incurred
 during the first half of 1998, the Company did not achieve the specified
 financial ratios for June 30, 1998 and it appeared unlikely that the Company
 would achieve the specified financial ratios for September 30, 1998.
 Consequently, the Company and its lenders entered into an agreement dated as of
 June 30, 1998 that waived through December 31, 1998 all defaults arising from
 the failure of the Company to satisfy the specified financial ratios for June
 30, 1998 and September 30, 1998. Pursuant to an agreement with the Company dated
 as of October 19, 1998, the Company 's lenders extended all of the waivers under
 the June 30 agreement through April 10, 1999 and also waived through such date
 all defaults arising from any failure by the Company to satisfy the specified
 financial ratios for December 31, 1998. As part of the October 19, 1998
 agreement, the Company agreed to a minimum monthly earnings before interest,
 taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") covenant (as defined in the bank
 credit facility) which covenant the Company had been able to satisfy.
 
          On April 10, 1999, among other things, the lenders extended all of the
 waivers set forth in the October 19, 1998 agreement through April 15, 1999. On
 April 15, 1999, the Company and its lenders entered into a comprehensive
 amendment to the bank credit facility that, among other things, extended all of
 the waivers under the April 10, 1999 agreement until April 10, 2000 and waived
 until such date all defaults arising from any failure by the Company to satisfy
 the specified financial ratios for any fiscal quarter end occurring during 1999
 and for March 31, 2000. Following is a description of the significant terms of
 the bank credit facility as amended April 15, 1999. As part of the April 15,
 1999 bank credit facility amendment, the Company agreed to a minimum cumulative
 EBITDA covenant that is based on post-December 31, 1998 consolidated EBITDA and
 is tested at the end of each month occurring on or prior to March 31, 2000, as
 well as a covenant limiting the amount of revolving loans (other than those used
 to fund the Coleman merger) that may be outstanding under the bank credit
 facility as of the end of each such month. The minimum cumulative EBITDA was
 initially $6.3 million for the period January 1, 1999 through April 30, 1999 and
 generally grows on a monthly basis until it reaches $121.0 million for the
 period from January 1, 1999 through March 31, 2000.
 
 The bank credit facility provides for aggregate borrowings of up to $1.7 billion
 through:
 
          o   a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up
              to $400.0 million maturing March 30, 2005, $52.5 million of which
              may only be used to complete the Coleman merger;
 
          o   up to $800.0 million in term loans maturing on March 30, 2005, of
              which $35.0 million may only be used to complete the Coleman
              merger; and
 
          o   a $500.0 million term loan maturing September 30, 2006, of which
              $5.0 million has already been repaid through June 30, 1999.
 
          As of March 31, 1999, approximately $1.5 billion was outstanding and
 approximately $0.1 billion was available for borrowing under the bank credit
 facility. The remaining $0.1 billion of the $1.7 billion bank credit facility
 was committed for outstanding letters of credit.
 
          Under the bank credit facility, interest accrues, at the Company 's
 option:
 
          o   at the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR");
 
          o   or at the base rate of the administrative agent which is generally
              the higher of the prime commercial lending rate of the
              administrative agent or the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50%;
 
 in each case plus an interest margin which is currently 4.00% for LIBOR
 borrowings and 2.50% for base rate borrowings. The interest margin is subject to
 potential decreases in the future, including a decrease to 3.00% for LIBOR loans
 and 1.75% for base rate loans upon consummation of the Coleman merger and the
 effectiveness of the pledge of substantially all of Coleman's and its domestic
 subsidiaries' assets to secure the obligations under the bank credit facility.
 
          Under the terms of the April 15, 1999 amendment to the bank credit
 facility, the Company is obligated to pay the bank lenders a loan commitment fee
 of between 0.25% to 1.00% of the commitments under the bank credit facility as
 of April 15, 1999. The percentage used to calculate the fee will be determined
 by reference to the bank lenders' aggregate commmitments and loan exposure under
 the bank credit facility as they may be reduced on or before September 30, 2000.
 The fee is payable on the earlier of September 30, 2000 and the date the
 commitments are terminated and the loans and other amount payable under the bank
 credit facility are repaid. (See Note 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial
 Statements.)
 
                                        21
 <PAGE>
 
          Borrowings under the bank credit facility are secured by a pledge of
 the stock of the Company's material subsidiaries, including Coleman, and by a
 security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Company and its
 material domestic subsidiaries, other than Coleman and its material subsidiaries
 except as described below. Currently, Coleman's inventory and related assets are
 pledged to secure its obligations for letters of credit issued for its account
 under the bank credit facility. Additionally, as security for Coleman's note
 payable to the Company, Coleman pledged substantially all of its domestic
 assets, other than real property, including 66% of the stock of its direct
 foreign subsidiaries and domestic holding companies for its foreign subsidiaries
 and all of the stock of its other direct domestic subsidiaries but not the
 assets of Coleman's subsidiaries. The pledge runs in favor of the Company 's
 lending banks, to which the Coleman note has been pledged as security for the
 Company 's obligations to them. Upon completion of the Coleman merger,
 substantially all of Coleman's assets and the assets of Coleman's domestic
 subsidiaries will be pledged to secure the obligations under the bank credit
 facility.
 
          In addition, borrowings under the bank credit facility are guaranteed
 by a number of the Company 's wholly-owned material domestic subsidiaries and
 these subsidiary guarantees are secured as described above. Upon completion of
 the Coleman merger, Coleman and each of its United States subsidiaries will
 become guarantors of the obligations under the bank credit facility. To the
 extent extensions of credit are made to any subsidiaries of the Company, the
 obligations of such subsidiaries are guaranteed by the Company.
 
          In addition to the above described financial ratios and tests, the bank
 credit facility contains covenants customary for credit facilities of a similar
 nature, including limitations on the ability of the Company and its
 subsidiaries, including Coleman, to, among other things:
 
          o   declare dividends or repurchase stock;
          o   prepay, redeem or repurchase debt, incur liens and engage in
              sale-leaseback transactions;
          o   make loans and investments;
          o   incur additional debt (including revolving loans under the bank
              credit facility);
          o   amend or otherwise alter material agreements or enter into
              restrictive agreements;
          o   make capital and Year 2000 compliance expenditures;
          o   engage in mergers, acquisitions and asset sales;
          o   engage in transactions with specified affiliates;
          o   settle specified litigation;
          o   alter its cash management system; and
          o   alter the businesses they conduct.
 
 Sunbeam is also required to comply with specified financial covenants and
 ratios.
 
        The bank credit facility provides for events of default customary for
 transactions of this type, including nonpayment, misrepresentation, breach of
 covenant, cross-defaults, bankruptcy, material adverse change arising from
 compliance with ERISA, material adverse judgments, entering into guarantees and
 change of ownership and control. It is also an event of default under the bank
 credit facility if the Company 's registration statement in connection with the
 Coleman merger is not declared effective by the SEC on or before October 30,
 1999 (effective as of October 25, 1999, the bank lenders agreed to extend this
 date to November 30, 1999), or if the merger does not occur within 25 business
 days of the effectiveness of the registration statement or if the cash
 consideration--including any payments on account of the exercise of any
 appraisal rights, but excluding related legal, accounting and other customary
 fees and expenses--to consummate the Coleman merger exceeds $87.5 million.
 Although there can be no assurance, the Company anticipates that it will satisfy
 these conditions. Furthermore, the bank credit facility requires the Company to
 prepay term loans under the bank credit facility on each of September 30, 1999
 and December 31, 1999 to the extent that cash on hand in the Company 's
 concentration accounts plus the aggregate amount of unused revolving loan
 commitments on these dates (excluding, for the September measurement date, $52.5
 million reserved for the Coleman merger), exceeds $115 million and $125 million,
 respectively, but the Company is not required to prepay more than $69.3 million
 in the aggregate as a result of the provision.
 
          Unless waived by the bank lenders, the failure of the Company to
 satisfy any of the financial ratios and tests contained in the bank credit
 facility or the occurrence of any other event of default under the bank credit
 facility would entitle the bank lenders to (a) receive a 2.00% increase in the
 interest rate applicable to outstanding loans and increase the trade letter of
 credit fees to 1.00% and (b) accelerate the maturity of the outstanding
 borrowings under the bank credit facility and exercise all or any of their other
 rights and remedies. Any such acceleration or other exercise of rights and
 remedies would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
          The bank credit facility also includes provisions for the deferral of
 the 1999 scheduled term loan payments of $69.3 million until April 10, 2000 as a
 result of the satisfaction by the Company on May 14, 1999 of the agreed upon
 conditions to the deferral. (See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial
 Statements.)
 
 CASH  FLOWS
 
          As of March 31, 1999, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of
 $46.2 million, working capital excluding cash and cash equivalents of $385.5
 million and total debt of $2.3 billion. Cash used in operating activities during
 the first quarter of 1999 was $57.5 million compared to $134.7 million in the
 first quarter of 1998. This change is primarily attributable to working capital
 improvements partially offset by lower earnings after giving effect to non-cash
 charges. The majority of the working capital improvements are attributable
 
                                        22
 <PAGE>
 
 
 the Company's management of inventory levels and accounts receivable.
 Inventories and receivables increased $65.9 million and $57.1 million,
 respectively, in the first quarter of 1998 as compared to $20.9 million and
 $35.8 million, respectively, in the first quarter of 1999. In 1998, the Company
 built inventory levels in anticipation of sales volumes that did not materialize
 and offered extended credit terms to its customers. The increase in inventory
 during the first quarter of 1999 is largely due to the seasonal inventory build
 in the Company's Outdoor Leisure division. The Company participates in an
 accounts receivable securitization program to finance a portion of its accounts
 receivable. (See Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial
 Statements.)
 
          In the first quarter of 1999, cash used in investing activities was
 driven by capital expenditures of $16.3 million, primarily for information
 systems and equipment and tooling for new products. Capital spending in the
 comparable 1998 period was $19.5 million and was primarily for capacity
 expansion initiatives, including the Neosho grill manufacturing facility, and
 equipment and tooling for new products. The new product capital spending in the
 1998 period principally related to the appliance category and included costs
 related to water and air filtration products, blenders, standmixers and irons.
 Cash used in investing activities in the first quarter of 1998 reflects $160.6
 million for the acquisition of approximately 81% of Coleman. The Company
 anticipates 1999 capital spending to be approximately 4% to 5% of net sales,
 primarily related to information systems and related support, including
 expenditures for Year 2000 readiness, new product introductions and capacity
 additions.
 
          Cash provided by financing activities totaled $58.7 million in the
 first quarter of 1999 and reflects net borrowings under the Company's New Credit
 Facility. Cash provided by financing activities in the first quarter of 1998 was
 $456.1 million and reflects net proceeds from the Debentures of $729.6 million,
 the cancellation and repayment of all outstanding balances under the Company's
 $250 million September 1996 revolving credit facility, the repayment of certain
 Coleman debt and the early extinguishment of the $75.0 million Hattiesburg bond.
 In addition, cash provided by financing activities is net of $25.1 million of
 financing fees related to the Company's $1.7 billion New Credit Facility and
 $19.0 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. (See Note 3 to the
 Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.)
 
          At March 31, 1999, standby and commercial letters of credit aggregated
 $75.1 million and were predominately for insurance, pension, environmental,
 workers' compensation, and international trade activities. In addition, as of
 March 31, 1999, surety bonds with a contract value of $66.5 million were
 outstanding largely for the Company's pension plans and as a result of
 litigation judgments that are currently under appeal. For additional information
 relating to the debentures, the bank credit facility and the repayment of debt,
 see Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
          The Company expects to acquire the remaining equity interest in Coleman
 pursuant to a merger transaction in which the existing Coleman minority
 shareholders will receive 0.5677 of a share of the Company's common stock, $6.44
 in cash for each share of Coleman common stock outstanding and warrants to
 purchase common stock of the Company at a cash exercise price of $7.00 per
 share. In addition, unexercised options under Coleman's stock option plans will
 be cashed out at a price per share equal to the difference between $27.50 and
 the exercise price of such options. The Company expects to issue approximately
 6.7 million shares of common stock and expend approximately $87 million in cash,
 including cash paid to option holders, to complete the Coleman transaction.
 Under a proposed settlement of certain litigation relating to the Coleman
 merger, the Company will also issue warrants to purchase up to 4.98 million
 shares of the Company's common stock to the Coleman public stockholders and the
 plaintiff's litigation counsel upon consummation of the Coleman merger.Although
 there can be no assurance, it is anticipated that the Coleman merger will occur
 in the second half of fiscal 1999.
 
          The Company believes its borrowing capacity under the New Credit
 Facility, cash flow from the combined operations of the Company and its acquired
 companies, existing cash and cash equivalent balances, and its receivable
 securitization program will be sufficient to support working capital needs,
 capital and Year 2000 compliance spending, and debt service through April 10,
 2000. The Company intends to negotiate with its lenders on an amendment to the
 New Credit Facility, negotiate with its lenders on further waiver of such
 covenants and other terms or refinance the New Credit Facility. Any decisions
 with respect to such amendment, waiver, or refinancing will be made based on a
 review from time to time of the advisability of particular transactions. There
 can be no assurance that an amendment, further waiver of existing covenants and
 other terms, or refinancing will be entered into by April 10, 2000. The failure
 to obtain such an amendment, further waiver or debt refinancing would likely
 result in violation of the existing covenants and compliance with other terms,
 which would permit the bank lenders to accelerate the maturity of all
 outstanding borrowings under the New Credit Facility. Accordingly, debt related
 to the New Credit Facility and all debt containing cross-default provisions will
 be classified as current in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet in the
 second quarter of 1999.
 
          In May 1998, the NYSE advised the Company that it did not meet the
 continuing listing standards of the NYSE because the Company did not have
 tangible net assets of at least $12 million and average annual net income of at
 least $0.6 million for 1995, 1996 and 1997. Representatives from the Company met
 with NYSE officials, and in March 1999, the NYSE informed the Company that the
 Company's common stock would not be delisted at that time, although the NYSE
 would, however, continue to monitor Sunbeam's financial condition and
 operations. On August 5, 1999, the NYSE advised the Company that the NYSE had
 revised its continuing listing standards, and that the Company is in compliance
 with the revised standards.
 
          In April 1999, the NYSE advised Coleman that it did not meet the NYSE's
 continuing listing standards because Coleman did not have tangible net assets of
 at least $12 million as of September 30, 1998 and average annual net income of
 at least $0.6 million for 1995, 1996 and 1997. At that time, Coleman requested
 the NYSE to continue to list the Coleman common stock until completion of the
 merger. The NYSE subsequently advised Coleman that Coleman also failed to
 satisfy certain non-financial continuing listing standards.
 
                                        23
 <PAGE>
 
 On August 5, 1999, the NYSE advised Coleman that the NYSE had revised its
 continuing listing standards, and that Coleman is in compliance with the revised
 financial standards. Coleman and the NYSE have agreed upon a program whereby
 Coleman will correct the deficiencies in its non-financial continuing listing
 standards by the end of 1999. Coleman is currently complying with such program.
 If Coleman were to be delisted from the NYSE, it would adversely affect
 Coleman's ability to sell its capital stock to third parties or use its capital
 stock as collateral for loans. Sunbeam's bank credit facility currently
 restricts Coleman from taking such actions.
 
          By letter dated June 17, 1998, the staff of the Division of Enforcement
 of the SEC advised the Company that it was conducting an informal inquiry into
 the Company 's accounting policies and procedures and requested that the Company
 produce documents. On July 2, 1998, the SEC issued a Formal Order of Private
 Investigation, designating officers to take testimony and pursuant to which a
 subpoena was served on Sunbeam requiring the production of documents. On
 November 4, 1998, the Company received another SEC subpoena requiring the
 production of additional documents. The Company has provided numerous documents
 to the SEC staff and continues to cooperate with the SEC staff. The Company has,
 however, declined to provide the SEC with material that the Company believes is
 subject to the attorney-client privilege and the work product immunity. The
 Company cannot predict the term of such investigation or its potential outcome.
 
          The Company is involved in significant litigation, including class and
 derivative actions, relating to events which led to the restatement of its
 consolidated financial statements, the issuance of the MacAndrews & Forbes
 warrant, the sale of the debentures and the employment agreements of Messrs.
 Dunlap and Kersh. Sunbeam intends to vigorously defend each of the actions, but
 cannot predict the outcome and is not currently able to evaluate the likelihood
 of the Company 's success in each case or the range of potential loss. However,
 if the Company were to lose these suits, judgments would likely have a material
 adverse effect on the Company 's financial position, results of operations and
 cash flows. Additionally, the Company's insurance carriers have filed various
 suits requesting a declaratory judgment that the directors' and officers'
 liability insurance policies for excess coverage was invalid and/or had been
 properly canceled by the carriers or have advised Sunbeam of their intent to
 deny coverage under such policies. The Company intends to pursue recovery from
 all of its insurers if damages are awarded against the Company or its
 indemnified officers and/or directors under any of the foregoing actions and to
 recover attorneys' fees covered under those policies. The Company 's failure to
 obtain such insurance recoveries following an adverse judgment against the
 Company on any of the foregoing actions could have a material adverse effect on
 the Company 's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
 
          Amounts accrued for litigation matters represent the anticipated costs
 (damages and/or settlement amounts) in connection with pending litigation and
 claims and related anticipated legal fees. The costs are accrued when it is both
 probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and
 the amount can be reasonably estimated. The accruals are based upon the Company
 's assessment, after consultation with counsel, of probable loss based on the
 facts and circumstances of each case, the legal issues involved, the nature of
 the claim made, the nature of the damages sought and any relevant information
 about the plaintiff, and other significant factors which vary by case. When it
 is not possible to estimate a specific expected amount of loss to be incurred,
 the Company evaluates the range of possible losses and records the minimum end
 of the range. As of March 31, 1999 the Company had established accruals for
 litigation matters of $26.2 million (representing $12.4 million and $13.8
 million for estimated damages or settlement amounts and legal fees,
 respectively). As of December 31, 1998, the Company had established accruals for
 litigation matters of $31.2 million (representing $17.5 million and $13.7
 million for estimated damages or settlements and legal fees, respectively.) It
 is anticipated that the $26.2 million accrual will be paid as follows: $17.7
 million in 1999, $7.2 million in 2000 and $1.3 million in 2001. The Company
 believes, based on information known to the Company at March 31, 1999, that
 anticipated probable costs of litigation matters existing as of March 31, 1999
 have been adequately reserved to the extent determinable.
 
          As a consumer goods manufacturer and distributor, the Company faces the
 constant risks of product liability and related lawsuits involving claims for
 substantial money damages, product recall actions and higher than anticipated
 rates of warranty returns or other returns of goods. These claims could result
 in liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
 financial position and results of operations. Some of the product lines the
 Company acquired in the 1998 acquisitions have increased its exposure to product
 liability and related claims.
 
          The Company and its subsidiaries are also involved in various lawsuits
 from time to time that Sunbeam considers to be ordinary routine litigation
 incidental to its business. In the opinion of the Company, the resolution of
 these routine matters, and of matters relating to prior operations, individually
 or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on the financial
 position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.
 
          See Note 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 
          Effective January 1, 1999, the Company adopted Statement of Position
 98-1, ACCOUNTING FOR THE COSTS OF COMPUTER SOFTWARE DEVELOPED OR OBTAINED FOR
 INTERNAL USE ("SOP 98-1"). SOP 98-1 requires computer software costs associated
 with internal use software to be expensed as incurred until certain
 capitalization criteria are met. Adoption of this statement did not have a
 material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position,
 results of operations, or cash flows.
 
          In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
 of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 ("SFAS No. 133"), ACCOUNTING FOR
 DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES, which is effective for fiscal
 years beginning after June 15,
 
                                        24
 <PAGE>
 
 2000. SFAS No. 133 requires the recognition of all derivatives in the
 Consolidated Balance Sheets as either assets or liabilities measured at fair
 value. The Company has not yet determined the impact SFAS No. 133 will have on
 its consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
 YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE
 
          The Company is preparing for the impact of the Year 2000 on its
 operations. Year 2000 issues could include potential problems in the information
 technology ("IT") and non-IT systems that the Company uses in its operations and
 problems in the Company's products. Year 2000 system failures could affect
 routine but critical operations such as forecasting, purchasing, production,
 order processing, inventory control, shipping, billing and collection. In
 addition, system failures could affect the Company's security, payroll
 operations, or employee safety. The Company may also be exposed to potential
 risks from third parties with whom the Company interacts who fail to adequately
 address their own Year 2000 issues.
 
 SUNBEAM'S APPROACH TO YEAR 2000 ISSUES
 
          While the Company's Year 2000 readiness planning has been underway for
 over one year, during the third quarter of 1998 the Company established a
 cross-functional project team consisting of senior managers, assisted by three
 external consulting firms which were retained to provide consulting services and
 to assist the Company in implementing its Year 2000 strategy. This team is
 sponsored by the Company's Chief Financial Officer who reports directly to the
 Company's Chief Executive Officer on this issue. The Audit Committee of the
 Board of Directors is advised periodically on the status of the Company's Year
 2000 readiness program.
 
          The Year 2000 project team has developed a phased approach to identify
 and resolve Year 2000 issues with many of these activities conducted in
 parallel. The Company's approach and the anticipated timing of each phase are
 described below.
 
          PHASE 1 - INVENTORY AND ASSESSMENT: During the first phase of Sunbeam's
 Year 2000 readiness program, the Company established a Year 2000 Program
 Management Office ("PMO") to centralize the management of all of the Company's
 Year 2000 projects. Through this office, the Company developed a corporate-wide,
 uniform strategy for assessing and addressing the Year 2000 issues.
 
          The Company has completed an inventory of its hardware and software
 systems, manufacturing equipment, electronic data interchange,
 telecommunications and other technical assets potentially subject to Year 2000
 problems, such as security systems and controls for lighting, air conditioning,
 ventilation and facility access. This inventory was then entered into the
 Company's Year 2000 database along with a determination of the item's level of
 criticality to operations. For those inventory items anticipated to have a
 significant effect on the business if not corrected, the Company's Year 2000
 program envisions repair or replacement and testing of such items. All
 information relative to each item is being tracked in the Company's Year 2000
 database. The Company completed most of this phase during the third and fourth
 quarters of 1998. The Company has completed a review of the readiness of
 embedded microprocessors in its products and determined that none of the
 Company's products have Year 2000 date sensitive systems.
 
          PHASE 2 - CORRECTION AND TESTING: The second phase of Sunbeam's Year
 2000 readiness program is structured to replace, upgrade or remediate (as
 necessary) those items identified during Phase 1 as requiring corrective action.
 
          Sunbeam relies on its IT functions to perform many tasks that are
 critical to its operations. Significant transactions that could be impacted by
 not being ready for any Year 2000 issues include, among others, purchases of
 materials, production management, order entry and fulfillment, payroll
 processing and billings and collections. Systems and applications that have been
 identified by Sunbeam to date as not currently Year 2000 ready and which are
 critical to Sunbeam's operations include its financial software systems, which
 process the order entry, purchasing, production management, general ledger,
 accounts receivable, and accounts payable functions, payroll applications, and
 critical applications in the Company's manufacturing and distribution
 facilities, such as warehouse management applications. Recognizing how dependent
 the entire company is on IT, Sunbeam decided in 1997 to replace its primary
 business applications with a uniform international business and accounting
 information system to address the systems or applications listed above as well
 as to improve internal reporting processes. Based upon representations from the
 manufacturer that the current version of this uniform information system is Year
 2000 ready, the Company has been actively upgrading its business sites that
 currently utilize this uniform system to the Year 2000 ready version. In
 addition to the pre-acquisition Sunbeam locations which had already utilized an
 earlier non-Year 2000 ready version of this uniform business and accounting
 information system, Eastpak, Mr. Coffee, Health-o-Meter and Sunbeam Latin
 America are replacing their current non-Year 2000 ready systems with this new
 uniform system. In addition, Coleman Europe is also replacing key business
 components with this new system.
 
          The Company is also actively replacing and/or upgrading a number of
 business systems that are not Year 2000 ready, including those that use
 localized business system packages which were not candidates to be replaced by
 the uniform business and accounting information system. For example, at Coleman
 approximately 2,000 mainframe software programs that are used in lieu of
 Sunbeam's uniform business and accounting information system have been
 remediated and tested to be Year 2000 ready. With respect to the Company's
 non-IT systems (for example, time and attendance, security, and in-line
 manufacturing hardware) the Company is actively analyzing these items to assess
 any Year 2000 issues. To date, no material issues have been discovered, and the
 Company will continue to review, test and correct, if necessary, such items.
 
                                        25
 <PAGE>
 
          Sunbeam has largely implemented the corrective work described above and
 expects to complete final testing and implementation of such systems in the
 third quarter and early fourth quarter of 1999.
 
          PHASE 3 - CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS: The third phase
 of Sunbeam's Year 2000 readiness program which was initiated during the third
 and fourth quarters of 1998 is designed to assess and interact with the
 Company's customers, suppliers, and business partners. As part of this effort,
 the Company surveyed 1,100 vendors and suppliers, a portion of which did not
 provide an initial response. During the first half of 1999, "high risk" vendors
 were contacted directly and the number of non-respondents has since decreased
 substantially. In fact, currently only 7% of the Company's vendors who were
 surveyed are categorized as "high risk" which includes non-respondents. Based on
 the most recent responses to the survey and continued evaluation, the Company
 believes that there is only a low to a medium risk of Year 2000 issues for the
 remaining vendors. The Company will continue to monitor the Year 2000 progress
 of the "high risk" vendors and has re-surveyed these companies to determine the
 appropriate course of action. Furthermore, the Company is in the process of
 contacting alternate vendors who are Year 2000 ready to replace critical vendors
 deemed "high risk" in the event that these vendors are not found to be Year 2000
 ready. The Company is in the process of completing a verification of the Year
 2000 survey responses for the most critical vendors to the Company.
 
          The Company has responded to numerous customer inquiries about the
 Company's Year 2000 readiness. The Company has verified that all of the
 Company's major customers have planned programs to deal with Year 2000 issuesand
 is currently completing the process of contacting its major customers to confirm
 they are implementing their planned programs to address Year 2000 issues. In
 order to improve the Company's communication with its customers, suppliers and
 business partners, the Company has set up a Sunbeam Year 2000 telephone number
 and is providing Year 2000 information on a Company web site.
 
          PHASE 4 - CONTINGENCY PLANNING: This phase involves contingency
 planning for unresolved Year 2000 issues, particularly any issues arising with
 third party suppliers. The Company's Year 2000 readiness program is ongoing and
 its ultimate scope, as well as the consideration of contingency plans, will
 continue to be evaluated as new information becomes available. The Company has
 designed its Year 2000 contingency plan and is in the process of implementing
 it. The development of the contingency plan included a process whereby the
 Company's critical IT and non-IT systems were evaluated for Year 2000 readiness.
 As a result of this evaluation, the Company does not expect to require
 additional operational equipment or significant process contingency measures.
 Although the Company does not currently believe there is significant risk
 associated with its third party suppliers, the contingency plan includes the
 continuing evaluation of the readiness of the Company's suppliers and
 consideration of the Company's inventory requirements to protect against supply
 disruption. This evaluation process may result in an increase in inventory
 during the later months of 1999.
 
 THE RISKS OF SUNBEAM'S YEAR 2000 APPROACH
 
          The independent consultants assisting the Company in its Year 2000
 readiness program have reviewed and concurred with the Company's approach, have
 assisted in developing cost estimates and have monitored costs for the largest
 single component (upgrade or installation of the Company's uniform system) of
 the Company's Year 2000 program. Since Sunbeam's Year 2000 program was developed
 and is monitored with the help of independent consultants, the Company did not
 engage another independent third party to verify the program's overall approach
 or total cost as the Company believes that the Company's exposure in this regard
 is mitigated. In addition, through the use of external third-party diagnostic
 software packages that are designed to analyze the Year 2000 readiness of
 business software programs, the Company was able to identify potential Year 2000
 issues at Coleman. Given this, the Company believes that it has also mitigated
 its risk by validating and verifying key program components.
 
          Management believes that, although there are significant systems that
 are being modified or replaced, including the uniform business and accounting
 information system, Sunbeam's information systems environment will be made Year
 2000 ready prior to January 1, 2000. Sunbeam's failure to timely complete such
 corrective work could have a material adverse impact on the Company.
 
          With respect to customers, suppliers and business partners, the failure
 of certain of these third parties to become Year 2000 ready could also have a
 material adverse impact on Sunbeam. For example, the failure of certain of the
 Company's principal suppliers to have Year 2000 ready internal systems could
 impact the Company's ability to manufacture and/or ship its products or to
 maintain adequate inventory levels for production.
 
          At this time, the Company believes that the most likely "worst-case"
 scenario relating to Year 2000 involves potential disruptions in areas in which
 the Company's operations must rely on third parties, such as suppliers, whose
 systems may not work properly after January 1, 2000. While such system failures
 could either directly or indirectly affect important operations of the Company
 and its subsidiaries in a significant manner, the Company cannot at present
 estimate either the likelihood or the potential cost of such failures. Subject
 to the nature of the goods or services provided to the Company by third parties
 whose operations are not made ready for Year 2000 issues, the impact on
 Sunbeam's operations could be material if appropriate contingency plans cannot
 be developed prior to January 1, 2000.
 
          The nature and focus of the Company's efforts to address the Year 2000
 problem may be revised periodically as interim goals are achieved or new issues
 are identified. In addition, it is important to note that the description of the
 Company's efforts and assessments necessarily involves estimates and projections
 with respect to activities required in the future. These estimates and
 projections are subject to change as work continues, and such changes may be
 substantial.
 
                                        26
 <PAGE>
 
 THE COSTS TO ADDRESS THE COMPANY'S YEAR 2000 ISSUES
 
          During the quarter ended March 31, 1999, Sunbeam had expended
 approximately $17 million to address Year 2000 issues of which approximately 50%
 was recorded as capital expenditures and the remainder as SG&A expense.
 Sunbeam's current assessment of the total costs to address and remedy Year 2000
 issues and enhance its operating systems, including costs for the acquired
 companies, is approximately $60 million. This estimate includes the following
 categories:
 
 <TABLE>
 <CAPTION>
          <S>                                                                    <C>
          o   uniform international business and accounting systems              $ 40 million
          o   localized business system software upgrades and remediation        $  9 million
          o   Year 2000 readiness assessment and tracking                        $  6 million
          o   upgrade of personal computers and related software                 $  5 million
 </TABLE>
 
          The amount to be incurred for Year 2000 issues during 1999 of
 approximately $41 million represents over 50% of the Company's total 1999 budget
 for information systems and related support, including Year 2000 costs. A large
 majority of these costs are expected to be incremental expenditures that will
 not recur in the Year 2000 or thereafter. Fees and expenses related to third
 party consultants, who are involved in the PMO as well as the modification and
 replacement of software, represent approximately 75% of the total estimated
 cost. The balance of the total estimated cost relates primarily to software
 license fees and new hardware, but excludes the costs associated with Company
 employees. Sunbeam expects these expenditures to be financed through operating
 cash flows or borrowings, as applicable. A significant portion of these
 expenditures will enhance Sunbeam's operating systems in addition to resolving
 the Year 2000 issues. As Sunbeam completes its assessment of the Year 2000
 issues, the actual expenditures incurred or to be incurred may differ materially
 from the amounts shown above. The bank credit facility does not permit the
 Company to spend more than $50 million on Year 2000 testing and remediation in
 1999.
 
          Because Year 2000 readiness is critical to the business, Sunbeam has
 redeployed some resources from non-critical system enhancements to address Year
 2000 issues. In addition, due to the importance of IT systems to the Company's
 business, management has deferred non-critical systems enhancements as much as
 possible. The Company does not expect these redeployments and deferrals to have
 a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations,
 or cash flows.
 
 CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS
 
          Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A may
 constitute "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private
 Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as the same may be amended from time
 to time (herein the "Act") and in releases made by the SEC from time to time.
 Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties
 and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance, or
 achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results,
 performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
 statements. Statements that are not historical fact are forward-looking
 statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by, among other things,
 the use of forward-looking language, such as the word "estimate," "project,"
 "intend," "expect," "believe," "may," "well," "should," "seeks," "plans,"
 "scheduled to," "anticipates," or "intends," or the negative of these terms or
 other variations of these terms or comparable language, or by discussions of
 strategy or intentions, when used in connection with the Company, including its
 management. These forward-looking statements were based on various factors and
 were derived utilizing numerous important assumptions and other important
 factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the
 forward-looking statements. These Cautionary Statements are being made pursuant
 to the Act, with the intention of obtaining the benefits of the "Safe Harbor"
 provisions of the Act. The Company cautions investors that any forward-looking
 statements made by the Company are not guarantees of future performance.
 Important assumptions and other important factors that could cause actual
 results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements with
 respect to the Company include, but are not limited to risks associated with (i)
 high leverage, (ii) Sunbeam's ability to comply with the terms of its credit
 agreement, including financial covenants and covenants relating to the
 completion of the Coleman merger, or to enter into an amendment to its credit
 agreement containing financial covenants which it and its bank lenders find
 mutually acceptable, or to continue to obtain waivers from its bank lenders with
 respect to its compliance with the existing covenants contained in such
 agreement, and to continue to have access to its revolving credit facility, or
 the Company's ability to refinance its indebtedness at acceptable rates with
 acceptable terms; (iii) Sunbeam's ability to integrate the recently acquired
 Coleman, Signature Brands and First Alert companies and expenses associated with
 such integration, (iv) Sunbeam's sourcing of products from international
 vendors, including the ability to select reliable vendors and to avoid delays in
 shipments, (v) Sunbeam's ability to maintain and increase market share for its
 products at anticipated margins, (vi) Sunbeam's ability to successfully
 introduce new products and to provide on-time delivery and a satisfactory level
 of customer service, (vii) changes in domestic and/or foreign laws and
 regulations, including changes in tax rates, accounting standards, environmental
 laws, occupational, health and safety laws, (viii) access to foreign markets
 together with foreign economic conditions, including currency fluctuations and
 trade, monetary and/or tax policies, (ix) uncertainty as to the effect of
 competition in existing and potential future lines of business, (x) fluctuations
 in the cost and availability of raw materials and/or products, (xi) changes in
 the availability and costs of labor, (xii) effectiveness of advertising and
 marketing programs, (xiii) economic uncertainty in Japan, Korea and other Asian
 countries, as well as in Mexico, Venezuela, and other Latin American countries,
 (xiv) product quality, including excess warranty costs, product liability
 expenses and costs of product recalls, (xv) weather conditions which can have an
 unfavorable impact upon sales of certain of Sunbeam's products, (xvi) the
 numerous lawsuits against the Company and the SEC investigation into the
 Company's accounting practices and policies, and uncertainty regarding the
 Company's available coverage on its directors' and officers' liability
 insurance, (xvii) the possibility of a recession in the United States or other
 countries resulting in a decrease in consumer
 
                                        27
 <PAGE>
 
 demands for the Company's products, (xviii) actions by competitors including
 business combinations, new product offerings and marketing and promotional
 activities, and (xix) failure of the Company and/or its suppliers of goods or
 services to timely complete the remediation of computer systems to effectively
 process Year 2000 information. Other factors and assumptions not included in the
 foregoing may cause the Company's actual results to materially differ from those
 projected. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking
 statements or these cautionary statements.
 
                                        28
 <PAGE>
 
 PART II - OTHER INFORMATION
 
