         OF OPERATIONS
 
      On June 30, 1998, the Company announced that the Audit Committee of the
 Board of Directors was initiating a review into the accuracy of prior financial
 statements. The Audit Committee's review has since been completed and, as a
 result of its findings, the Company has restated its previously issued
 consolidated financial statements for 1996 and 1997 and the first quarters of
 1998 and 1997 (see Note 8 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial
 statements and the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended
 December 28, 1997). The following discussion should be read in conjunction with
 the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for the
 three months ended March 31, 1998 and March 30, 1997.
 
 OVERVIEW
 
      On March 30, 1998, the Company, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired
 approximately 81% of the total number of then outstanding shares of common stock
 of The Coleman Company, Inc. ("Coleman"), in exchange for 14,099,749 shares of
 the Company's common stock and approximately $160 million in cash as well as the
 assumption of $1,016 million in debt. The Company expects to acquire the
 remaining equity interest in Coleman pursuant to a merger transaction in which
 the existing Coleman minority shareholders will receive approximately 6.7
 million shares of common stock and approximately $87 million in cash. Although
 there can be no assurance, it is anticipated the Coleman merger will occur in
 the first quarter of fiscal 1999. (See Note 10 to the condensed consolidated
 financial statements and Part II, Item 1. "Legal Proceedings"). Coleman is a
 leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer products for the worldwide outdoor
 recreation market. Its products have been sold domestically under the Coleman
 /registered trademark/ brand name since the 1920's.
 
       The Coleman acquisition was recorded under the purchase method of
 accounting; and accordingly, the results of operations of Coleman for March 30
 and 31, 1998 are included in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statement
 of Operations. The purchase price of Coleman has been allocated to individual
 assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on preliminary estimates of fair
 market value at the date of acquisition. The allocation of purchase price for
 the acquisition of Coleman will be revised when additional information
 concerning asset and liability valuations is obtained. Adjustments, which could
 be significant, will be made during the allocation period based on detailed
 reviews of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and could
 result in a substantial change in goodwill and other intangible assets.
 
      To standardize the fiscal period ends of the Company, Coleman and two
 companies acquired after March 31, 1998, effective with its 1998 fiscal year,
 the Company has changed its fiscal year end from the Sunday nearest December 31
 to a calendar year. (See Notes 1 and 10 to the condensed consolidated financial
 statements.)
 
 THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 1998 COMPARED TO THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 30, 1997
 
      Net sales is comprised of gross sales less provisions for estimated
 customer returns, discounts, promotional allowances, cooperative advertising
 allowances and costs incurred by the Company to ship product to customers. Net
 sales for the three months ended March 31, 1998 were $247.6 million, a decrease
 of $4.9 million or 2% versus the three months ended March 30, 1997. After
 excluding: (i) $14.8 million of Coleman's sales for March 30 and 31, 1998, (ii)
 approximately $4 million in 1998 sales resulting from the change in year end
 described above, (iii) $4.2 million from 1997 sales relating to divested product
 lines which are not classified as discontinued operations (time and temperature
 products and Counselor /registered trademark/ and Borg /registered trademark/
 branded scales), and (iv) $13.7 million from 1997 sales of discontinued
 inventory which resulted primarily from the reduction of SKU's as part of the
 1996 restructuring plan and for which the inventory carrying value was
 substantially equivalent to the sales value, net sales on an adjusted basis
 ("Adjusted Sales") reflected a 2% decrease from the first quarter of 1997.
 Overall, product sales were adversely impacted by price discounting and
 approximately $13 million of higher provisions for estimated returns, costs to
 ship products to customers, rebates and other customer allowances.
 
      Domestic Adjusted Sales declined approximately $10 million from the first
 quarter of 1997. Outdoor Cooking category sales accounted for the majority of
 this decline. During 1997, the Company lost a significant portion of its Outdoor
 Cooking products distribution, including the majority of its grill accessory
 products distribution. As compared with the first quarter of 1997, the Outdoor
 Cooking products sales decline was also attributed to a lower than anticipated
 retail sell-through during the early stages of the 1998 retail selling season.
 Based on the sales levels achieved in the first quarter of 1998, distribution
 losses and retail inventory levels for Outdoor Cooking products, and a
 significant sales decline experienced subsequent to the first quarter as
 compared with the same period in the prior year, sales for the remainder of 1998
 will be significantly lower as compared to the prior year. Adjusted Sales for
 Appliance category products increased approximately $7 million but were offset
 by declines in other product categories, primarily Away From Home products.
 
       International sales, which represented 26% of Adjusted Sales in the first
 quarter of 1998, grew approximately 16% over the first quarter of 1997's
 Adjusted Sales. This sales growth was attributed to improved distribution, new
 product sales and increased retail inventory levels in Latin America, including
 Mexico and Venezuela, offset by declines in sales of Outdoor Cooking products in
 Europe and Canada.
 
      Excluding $4.1 million of gross margin generated from the inclusion of the
 Coleman operations for two days in the first quarter of 1998 and approximately
 $0.6 million in gross margin from the change in the fiscal period, gross margin
 declined to $29.1 million, or 12.7% of Adjusted Sales in 1998 versus $58.3
 million, or 24.8% of Adjusted Sales for the same period a year ago. The margin
 erosion was due to lower price realization and higher costs of customer
 allowances, rebates and similar incentives in 1998, coupled with a higher
 product return reserve and an adverse product sales mix in 1998. The adverse
 product sales mix was due in part to the loss of a majority of the grill
 accessory products distribution. Accessories generate significantly better
 margins than the average margins on sales of grills. During the first quarter of
 each year, grill and grill accessory sales are traditionally a higher portion of
 overall sales in the period than during other quarters of the year.
 
                                        19
 
 <PAGE>
 
 
      Due to the level of Outdoor Cooking products sales in the first quarter and
 the levels of retail inventories for these products, the Company began the
 season-end ramp down of production at the Neosho Outdoor Cooking products
 facility earlier than previously planned. As a result, operating results for the
 1998 grill season will be adversely impacted due to unabsorbed fixed factory
 overhead during the second and third quarters and higher inventory carrying
 costs.
 
       Excluding the effect of: (i) $3.7 million of selling, general and
 administrative ("SG&A") charges from Coleman, (ii) approximately $0.8 million of
 SG&A expenses in 1998 from the change in the fiscal period, (iii) a $3.0 million
 benefit in the first quarter of 1998 and a $0.5 million benefit in the first
 quarter of 1997 from the reversal of reserves no longer required, (iv) $31.2
 million of charges recorded in 1998 related to compensation for former
 executives, and (v) $4.1 million of restructuring related charges recorded in
 1997, SG&A expenses were 2% higher in 1998 than 1997. Higher distribution and
 warehousing costs due to increased levels of inventory were primarily
 responsible for the increase in costs between years.
 
      Operating results for the first quarters of 1998 and 1997, on a comparable
 basis as described above, were a loss of $9.4 million in 1998 and a profit of
 $20.7 million in 1997. On the same basis, operating margins as a percent of
 Adjusted Sales decreased to a loss of 4.1% from a profit of 8.8% in the prior
 year. This change resulted from the factors discussed above.
 
      Interest expense increased from $2.0 million in the first quarter of 1997
 to $5.1 million in the first quarter of 1998 primarily related to higher
 borrowing levels in 1998 for the acquisitions and increased working capital.
 (See Note 3 to the condensed consolidated financial statements.)
 
      Other expense, net of $3.2 million in 1998 and $0.1 million in 1997
 primarily represents foreign exchange losses. Losses in both years arose from
 Sunbeam's operations in Mexico. In addition, the 1998 losses were impacted by
 Sunbeam's operations in Venezuela and Coleman's operations in Japan.
 
      The effective income tax rate was 0.3% in the first quarter of 1998, as
 compared to 39.8% in the first quarter of 1997. The 1998 rate is lower than the
 statutory federal rate principally as a result of a valuation allowance for
 deferred tax assets provided in 1998. The 1997 rate was higher than the federal
 statutory income tax rate primarily due to state and local taxes plus the effect
 of foreign earnings taxed at other rates.
 
      The Company's loss per share from continuing operations in the first
 quarter of 1998, excluding: (i) Coleman's results for March 30 and 31, 1998,
 (ii) the effect of the change in fiscal periods, (iii) the reversals of reserves
 no longer required in each year's first quarter, (iv) the restructuring related
 charges in 1997, and (v) the 1998 charge related to management compensation was
 a loss of $0.20 per share versus earnings per share from continuing operations
 in the first quarter of 1997 of $0.13 per share. Due to increased inventory
 positions at certain customers from sales in 1997 and the first quarter of 1998,
 as well as increased inventory positions at the Company, sales and operating
 income will be materially affected during the remainder of 1998. In addition,
 1998 results will be impacted materially by charges related to, among other
 items, a change in management, changes in business operations resulting in part
 from acquisitions in 1998, interest costs associated with higher debt levels,
 costs associated with litigation and asset impairment costs, as well as costs
 related to Year 2000 issues. (See "Liquidity and Capital Resources", below, and
 Note 10 to the condensed consolidated financial statements.)
 
      In March 1998, the Company prepaid a $75.0 million 7.85% industrial revenue
 bond related to its Hattiesburg facility originally due in 2009. In connection
 with the early extinguishment of this debt, the Company recognized an
 extraordinary charge of $8.6 million ($0.10 per share) in the first quarter of
 1998.
 
      The Company's discontinued furniture business, which was sold in March
 1997, had revenues of $51.6 million in the first quarter of 1997 prior to the
 sale and nominal earnings. As a result of the sale of the Company's furniture
 business assets (primarily inventory, property, plant and equipment), the
 Company received $69.0 million in cash, retained approximately $50.0 million in
 accounts receivable and retained certain liabilities. The final purchase price
 for the furniture business was subject to a post-closing adjustment based on the
 terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement and in the first quarter of 1997, after
 completion of the sale, the Company recorded an additional loss on disposal of
 $22.5 million pre-tax.
 
 FOREIGN OPERATIONS
 
 
      Approximately 90% of the Company's business is conducted in U.S. dollars
 (including both domestic sales, U.S. dollar denominated export sales, primarily
 to certain Latin American markets, Asian sales and the majority of European
 sales). The Company's exposure to market risk from changes in foreign currency
 and interest rates is generally insignificant. The Company's non-U.S. dollar
 denominated sales are made principally by subsidiaries in Mexico, Venezuela and
 Canada. Venezuela is considered a hyperinflationary economy for accounting
 purposes for 1998 and 1997 and Mexico reverted to a hyperinflationary status for
 accounting purposes in 1997; therefore, translation adjustments related to
 Venezuelan and Mexican net monetary assets are included as a component of net
 earnings. Mexico is not expected to be hyperinflationary at some point in 1998.
 
      While Sunbeam's revenues generated in Asia have traditionally not been
 significant, economic instability in this region is expected to have a negative
 effect on Coleman's earnings. It is anticipated that sales in and exports to
 this region will continue to decline so long as the economic environment remains
 unsettled. It is not anticipated that this impact will be materially adverse to
 the Company's results of operations taken as a whole.
 
      On a limited basis, the Company selectively uses derivatives (foreign
 exchange option and forward contracts) to manage foreign exchange exposures that
 arise in the normal course of business. No derivative contracts are entered into
 for trading or speculative purposes. The use of derivatives did not have a
 material impact on the Company's financial results in 1998 and 1997. (See Note 3
 to the condensed consolidated financial statements.)
 
 
                                        20
 
 <PAGE>
 
 SEASONALITY
 
      On a consolidated basis, the Company's sales have not traditionally
 exhibited substantial seasonality; however, sales have been strongest during the
 fourth quarter of the calendar year. Additionally, sales of Outdoor Cooking
 products are strongest in the first half of the year, while sales of Appliances
 and Personal Care and Comfort products are strongest in the second half of the
 year. Furthermore, sales of a number of the Company's traditional products,
 including warming blankets, vaporizers, humidifiers and grills may be impacted
 by unseasonable weather conditions. After considering the seasonality of the
 acquired entities, the Company's consolidated sales are not expected to exhibit
 substantial seasonality; however, sales are expected to be strongest during the
 second quarter of the calendar year. Additionally, sales of many products sold
 by Coleman may be impacted by unseasonable weather conditions.
 
 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
      In order to finance the acquisition of Coleman in the first quarter of 1998
 and the anticipated acquisitions of First Alert, Inc. ("First Alert") and
 Signature Brands USA, Inc. ("Signature Brands") and to refinance substantially
 all of the indebtedness of the Company and the acquired entities, the Company
 consummated: (i) an offering (the "Offering") of Zero Coupon Convertible Senior
 Subordinated Debentures due 2018 (the "Debentures") at a yield to maturity of 5%
 (approximately $2,014 million principal amount at maturity) in March 1998, which
 resulted in approximately $730 million of net proceeds and, (ii) entered into a
 revolving and term credit facility ("New Credit Facility"). (See Note 10.)
 
      The New Credit Facility provided for an aggregate borrowings of up to $1.7
 billion pursuant to: (i) a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal
 amount of up to $400 million, maturing March 31, 2005; (ii) an $800 million term
 loan maturing on March 31, 2005, and (iii) a $500 million term loan maturing
 September 30, 2006. Interest accrues at a rate selected at the Company's option
 of: (i) the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus an agreed upon interest
 margin which varies depending upon the Company's leverage ratio, as defined, and
 other items or, (ii) the base rate of the administrative agent (generally the
 higher of the prime commercial lending rate of the administrative agent or the
 Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1%), plus an agreed upon interest margin which
 varies depending upon the Company's leverage ratio, as defined, and other items.
 (See Notes 3 and 10 to the condensed consolidated financial statements.)
 
      As of March 31, 1998, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $193.5
 million, working capital excluding cash and cash equivalents of $707.5 million
 and total debt of $1.7 billion. Cash used in operating activities during the
 first quarter of 1998 was $134.7 million compared to $22.6 million in the first
 quarter of 1997. This increase is primarily attributable to lower earnings
 before non-cash charges and an increased investment in working capital. The
 majority of the increase in working capital is a result of higher inventory and
 receivables levels in 1998. Inventories increased $312.2 million from December
 28, 1997, of which $246.3 million related to Coleman and $65.9 million related
 to Sunbeam's household and grill products. Receivables increased $272.2 million
 from December 28, 1997, with $215.1 million due to the Coleman acquisition and
 $57.1 million from Sunbeam's historical operating units. Extended dating terms
 contributed to the increase in Sunbeam's receivables. Cash used in operating
 activities for the 1998 first quarter reflects proceeds of $34.8 million from
 the Company's revolving trade accounts receivable securitization program entered
 into in December 1997. The Company expects to continue to use the securitization
 program to finance a portion of its accounts receivable. The Company anticipates
 that cash used in operating activities will increase in the second and third
 quarters of 1998, principally from losses incurred in operations and increases
 in inventory. As certain inventories built in 1997 and the first quarter of 1998
 in anticipation of 1998 sales volumes exceed the actual requirements, it will be
 necessary to dispose of some portions of excess inventories at amounts less than
 cost.
 
      Cash used in investing activities in the first quarter of 1998 reflects
 $160.6 million for the acquisition of approximately 81% of Coleman. In the first
 quarter of 1997, cash provided by investing activities reflected $70.4 million
 in proceeds from the sales of divested operations. Capital spending totaled
 $19.5 million in 1998 and was primarily for capacity expansion initiatives
 primarily at the Neosho grill manufacturing facility, and equipment and tooling
 for new products. Capital spending in 1997 was $10.9 million and was primarily
 attributable to manufacturing capacity expansion and equipment to manufacture
 new products. The new product capital spending in 1998 principally related to
 the Appliance category and included costs related to water and air filtration
 products, blenders, standmixers and irons. The Company anticipates 1998 capital
 spending to be approximately 5% of sales, primarily related to new product
 introductions, capacity additions and certain facility rationalization
 initiatives.
 
      Cash provided by financing activities totaled $456.1 million in the first
 quarter of 1998 and reflects net proceeds from the Debentures of $729.6 million,
 the cancellation and repayment of all outstanding balances under the Company's
 $250 million September 1996 revolving credit facility, the repayment of certain
 Coleman debt and the early extinguishment of the $75.0 million Hattiesburg bond.
 In addition, cash provided by financing activities is net of $25.1 million of
 financing fees related to the Company's $1.7 billion New Credit Facility and
 $19.0 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. (See Note 3 to the
 condensed consolidated financial statements.)
 
      In April 1998, the Company drew from the term loans under the New Credit
 Facility to fund the acquisitions of Signature Brands and First Alert as further
 described in Note 10 to the condensed consolidated financial statements and to
 refinance certain debt of the acquired companies. The Company drew an additional
 $550 million of term loans and $50 million of revolving loans in May 1998 to
 finance the prepayment of certain debt assumed in connection with the Coleman
 acquisition. In connection with these debt refinancings, the Company expects to
 record an extraordinary charge of approximately $104 million in the second
 quarter of 1998.
 
      At June 30, 1998, the Company was not in compliance with the covenants and
 ratios under the New Credit Facility. The Company and its lenders entered into
 an agreement dated June 30, 1998, which provided that compliance with the
 covenants would be waived through December 31, 1998. Subsequently, pursuant to
 an amendment dated October 19, 1998, the Company is not required to comply with
 the original financial covenants and ratios under the New Credit Facility until
 April 10, 1999, but will be required to comply with an earnings before interest,
 taxes, depreciation and amortization covenant, the amounts of which are to be
 determined, beginning February 1999. At September 30, 1998, following the
 scheduled repayment of a portion of the term loan, the New Credit Facility was
 reduced to $1,698 million in total, of which approximately $1,453 million was
 outstanding and approximately $245 million was available. In addition, the
 Company's cash balance available for debt repayment at September 30, 1998 was
 approximately $43 million.
 
                                        21
 
 <PAGE>
 
 
      The Company is working closely with its bank lenders and hopes to reach
 agreement with the bank lenders on a further amendment to the New Credit
 Facility containing revised financial covenants which the bank lenders and the
 Company find mutually acceptable. There can be no assurance that such an
 amendment, or a further waiver of the existing financial covenants, will be
 entered into with the bank lenders by April 10, 1999. The failure to obtain such
 an amendment or further waiver would result in violation of the existing
 covenants, which would permit the bank lenders to accelerate the maturity of all
 outstanding borrowing under the New Credit Facility.
 
      The Company expects to acquire the remaining equity interest in Coleman
 pursuant to a merger transaction in which the existing Coleman minority
 shareholders will receive approximately 6.7 million shares of common stock and
 approximately $87 million in cash. In addition, as a result of litigation
 related to the merger consideration, the Company has entered into a memorandum
 of understanding (subject to court approval) pursuant to which the holders of
 the remaining equity interest in Coleman will also receive five-year warrants to
 purchase 4.98 million shares of Sunbeam common stock at $7.00 per share. There
 can be no assurance that the court will approve the settlement as proposed.
 Although there can be no assurance, it is anticipated the Coleman merger will
 occur in the first quarter of fiscal 1999. (See Note 10 to the condensed
 consolidated financial statements.)
 
      The Company believes its borrowing capacity under the New Credit Agreement,
 cash flow from the combined operations of the Company and its acquired
 companies, existing cash and cash equivalent balances, and its receivable
 securitization program will be sufficient to support working capital needs,
 capital spending, and debt service for the foreseeable future. However, if the
 Company is unable to satisfactorily amend the financial covenants and ratio
 requirements of the New Credit Facility or obtain a further waiver of the
 existing covenants and ratio requirements prior to April 10, 1999, the Company
 expects it would, at that time, be in default of the requirements under the New
 Credit Facility and, as noted above, the lenders could then require the
 repayment of all amounts then outstanding under the New Credit Facility.
 
 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 
      See Notes 1 and 10 to the Company's condensed consolidated financial
 statements for a discussion of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
 ("SFAS") No. 131, DISCLOSURES ABOUT SEGMENTS OF AN ENTERPRISE AND RELATED
 INFORMATION, SFAS No. 133, ACCOUNTING FOR DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING
 ACTIVITIES, Statement of Position ("SOP") 98-1, ACCOUNTING FOR THE COSTS OF
 COMPUTER SOFTWARE DEVELOPED OR OBTAINED FOR INTERNAL USE and SOP 98-5, REPORTING
 ON THE COSTS OF START-UP ACTIVITIES, which are required to be adopted for
 periods beginning after December 15, 1997. The adoption of these standards is
 not expected to have a material effect on the Company's consolidated results of
 operations, financial position, or cash flows, although actual charges incurred
 may be material due to Year 2000 issues, as discussed below.
 
 YEAR 2000
 
      The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of the Year 2000 on
 its operations, including the Coleman, First Alert and Signature Brands
 companies which were acquired by the Company in the spring of 1998. The Company
 established a Year 2000 Program Management Office in the third quarter of 1998
 to conduct such assessment with assistance from three consulting firms. The
 Company's assessment encompasses the Company's information technology functions
 along with the impact of the effects of noncompliance by its vendors, service
 providers, customers, and financial institutions. Additionally, the Company is
 assessing the impact of noncompliance of embedded microprocessors in its
 products as well as equipment, such as security and telephone systems and
 controls for lighting, heating/ventilation, and facility access.
 
      The Company relies on its information technology functions to perform many
 tasks that are critical to its operations. Significant transactions that could
 be impacted by Year 2000 noncompliance include, among others, purchases of
 materials, production management, order entry and fulfillment, and payroll
 processing. Systems and applications that have been identified by the Company to
 date as not currently Year 2000 compliant and which are critical to the
 Company's operations include its financial software systems, which process the
 order entry, purchasing, production management, general ledger, accounts
 receivable, and accounts payable functions, and critical applications in the
 Company's manufacturing and distribution facilities, such as the warehouse
 management application. The Company plans to complete corrective work with
 respect to the Company's systems by the second quarter of 1999 with final
 testing and implementation of such systems occurring in the third quarter of
 1999. Management believes that, although there are significant systems that will
 need to be modified or replaced, the Company's information systems environment
 will be made Year 2000 compliant prior to January 1, 2000. The Company's failure
 to timely complete such corrective work could have a material adverse impact on
 the Company. The Company is not able to estimate possible lost profits arising
 from such failure.
 
                                        22
 <PAGE>
 
 
      The Company is in the process of contacting its vendors and suppliers of
 products and services to determine their Year 2000 readiness and plans. This
 review includes third party providers to whom the Company has outsourced the
 processing of its cash receipt and cash disbursement transactions. The Company
 plans to complete this review during the fourth quarter of 1998. The failure of
 certain of these third party suppliers to become Year 2000 compliant could have
 a material adverse impact on the Company.
 
      The Company's preliminary assessment of the total costs to address and
 remedy Year 2000 issues, including costs for the acquired companies, is at least
 $50 million. This estimate includes the costs of software and hardware
 modifications and replacements and fees to third party consultants, but excludes
 internal resources. The Company expects these expenditures to be financed
 through operating cash flows or borrowings, as applicable. Through March 31,
 1998, the Company had expended less than $1 million related to new systems and
 remediation to address Year 2000 issues, of which the majority was for software
 licenses and was therefore recorded as capital expenditures. Of the remaining
 estimated expenditures, it is anticipated that approximately 25% will be
 incurred by year-end 1998, with the remainder in 1999. A significant portion of
 these expenditures will enhance the Company's operating systems in addition to
 resolving the Year 2000 issues. As the Company completes its assessment of the
 Year 2000 issues, the actual expenditures incurred or to be incurred may differ
 materially from the amounts shown above.
 
      After completing the assessment of the Year 2000 on its operations, the
 Company plans to establish a contingency plan for addressing any effects of the
 Year 2000 on its operations, whether due to noncompliance of the Company's
 systems or those of third parties. The Company expects to complete such
 contingency plan by September 30, 1999; such contingency plan will address
 alternative processes, such as manual procedures to replace those processed by
 noncompliant systems, potential alternative service providers, and plans to
 address compliance issues as they arise. Subject to the nature of the systems
 and applications which are not made Year 2000 compliant, the impact of such
 non-compliance on the Company's operations could be material if appropriate
 contingency plans cannot be developed prior to January 1, 2000.
 
 
 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
      See Note 10 of Notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for
 information relating to, among other matters, a change in management, litigation
 and anticipated asset impairment, inventory reserves and related liabilities.
 
 RESTATEMENT OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 30, 1997
 COMPARED TO THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 1996
 
      The results of operations previously reported for the three months ended
 March 30, 1997 as compared with the three months ended March 31, 1996 generally
 understated the level of expenses incurred in 1997. Gross margin was previously
 reported to have improved 5.8 percentage points from the level achieved in 1996.
 After restatement, the gross margin improvement was 2.2 percentage points.
 Operating income was previously reported to have improved $19.2 million or
 123.9% from 1996's first quarter to the first quarter of 1997. After reflecting
 the results of the restatement, operating earnings were $17.1 million for the
 first quarter of 1997, an improvement of $1.5 million or 9.9% from the prior
 year. On November 12, 1998, the Company filed a Form 10-K/A setting forth its
 restated financial statements for December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996, and
 the fiscal years then ended. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
 Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal years 1997 and 1998 as well
 as 1996 and 1995 are contained therein. (See Note 8 to the condensed
 consolidated financial statements.)
 
                                        23
 <PAGE>
 
 CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS
 
      Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A may constitute
 "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
 Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as the same may be amended from time to time
 (herein the "Act") and in releases made by the Securities and Exchange
 Commission ("SEC") from time to time. Such forward-looking statements involve
 known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the
 actual results, performance, or achievements of the Company to be materially
 different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or
 implied by such forward-looking statements. When used in this Quarterly Report
 on Form 10-Q/A, the word "estimate," "project," "intend," "expect" and similar
 expressions, when used in connection with the Company, including its management,
 are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking
 statements were based on various factors and were derived utilizing numerous
 important assumptions and other important factors that could cause actual
 results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These
 Cautionary Statements are being made pursuant to the Act, with the intention of
 obtaining the benefits of the "Safe Harbor" provisions of the Act. The Company
 cautions investors that any forward-looking statements made by the Company are
 not guarantees of future performance. Important assumptions and other important
 factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the
 forward-looking statements with respect to the Company include, but are not
 limited to risks associated with (i) high leverage, (ii) Sunbeam's ability to
 enter into an amendment to its credit agreement containing financial covenants
 which it and its bank lenders find mutually acceptable, or to continue to obtain
 waivers from its bank lenders with respect to its compliance with the existing
 covenants contained in such agreement, and to continue to have access to its
 revolving credit facility, (iii) Sunbeam's ability to integrate the recently
 acquired Coleman, Signature Brands and First Alert companies and expenses
 associated with such integration, (iv) Sunbeam's sourcing of products from
 international vendors, including the ability to select reliable vendors and to
 avoid delays in shipments, (v) Sunbeam's ability to maintain and increase market
 share for its products at anticipated margins, (vi) Sunbeam's ability to
 successfully introduce new products and to provide on-time delivery and a
 satisfactory level of customer service, (vii) changes in laws and regulations,
 including changes in tax rates, accounting standards, environmental laws,
 occupational, health and safety laws, (viii) access to foreign markets together
 with foreign economic conditions, including currency fluctuations, (ix)
 uncertainty as to the effect of competition in existing and potential future
 lines of business, (x) fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw
 materials and/or products, (xi) changes in the availability and relative costs
 of labor, (xii) effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs, (xiii)
 economic uncertainty in Japan, Korea and other Asian countries, as well as in
 Mexico, Venezuela, and other Latin American countries, (xiv) product quality,
 including excess warranty costs, product liability expenses and costs of product
 recalls, (xv) weather conditions which can have an unfavorable impact upon sales
 of Sunbeam's products, (xvi) the numerous lawsuits against the Company and the
 SEC investigation into the Company's accounting practices and policies, and
 uncertainty regarding the Company's available coverage on its directors' and
 officers' liability insurance, (xvii) the possibility of a recession in the
 United States or other countries resulting in a decrease in consumer demands for
 the Company's products, and (xviii) failure of the Company and/or its suppliers
 of goods or services to timely complete the remediation of computer systems to
 effectively process Year 2000 information. Other factors and assumptions not
 included in the foregoing may cause the Company's actual results to materially
 differ from those projected. The Company assumes no obligation to update any
 forward-looking statements or these Cautionary Statements to reflect actual
 results or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements.
 
                                        24
 
 <PAGE>
 
 
 PART II - OTHER INFORMATION
 
