 OF OPERATIONS.
  
 OVERVIEW
  
      The Company is one of the largest manufacturers and marketers of nationally
 branded and private label paper-based office products (excluding copy paper) in
 the $60 billion to $70 billion North American office products industry. The
 Company offers a broad assortment of products including writing pads, file
 folders, envelopes, machine papers and other paper-based products. Through its
 Ampad division, the Company is among the largest suppliers of pads and other
 paper-based writing products, filing supplies, machine papers and retail
 envelopes to many of the largest and fastest growing office products
 distributors. Through its Williamhouse division, the Company is the leading
 supplier of mill branded specialty and commodity business envelopes to paper
 merchants and distributors. The Company believes that its future operating
 results will not be directly comparable to its historical operating results
 because of its strategic acquisitions. Certain factors, which have affected, and
 may affect prospectively, the operating results of the Company are discussed
 below.
  
      Strategic Acquisition. On February 11, 1997, the Company acquired
 Shade/Allied, a national supplier of machine papers, principally continuous
 computer forms. The purchase price of $50.7 million was financed with borrowings
 under the Company's bank credit agreement. Both the Ampad and Williamhouse
 divisions distribute Shade/Allied's products and the manufacturing plants are
 integrated into the Ampad division. This acquisition provided the Company with a
 more significant position in a fourth product category.
  
      Purchase Accounting Effects. The Company's acquisitions have been accounted
 for using the purchase accounting method. The acquisitions have currently
 affected, and will prospectively affect, the Company's results of operations in
 certain significant respects. The aggregate acquisition costs (including
 assumption of debt) are allocated to the net assets acquired based on the fair
 market value of such net assets. The allocations of the purchase price result in
 an increase in the historical book value of certain assets such as property,
 plant and equipment and intangible assets, including goodwill, which results in
 incremental annual depreciation and amortization expense each year.
  
      Raw Material. The Company's principal raw material is paper. Certain
 commodity grades utilized by the Company have shown considerable price
 volatility since 1992. From May 1997 through October 1997, all but one of the
 key commodity grades of paper utilized by the Company increased in cost between
 6% and 18%. Due to strategic customer considerations and competitive market
 conditions, the Company did not begin to recover a significant portion of the
 increases in paper costs affecting both its divisions until December 1997. The
 Company continued to implement sales pricing increases during the first quarter
 of 1998. Paper price volatility is expected to continue to have an effect on net
 sales and cost of sales and there is no assurance that the Company will not be
 materially affected by future fluctuations in the price of paper. Fluctuations
 in paper prices can have an effect on quarterly comparisons of the results of
 operations and financial condition of the Company.
  
                                         9
 <PAGE>   10
  
 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  
      The following table summarizes the Company's historical results of
 operations as a percentage of net sales for the three months ended March 31,
 1998 and 1997. The Company's historical results of operations for each of these
 periods are significantly affected by the results for Shade/Allied, which was
 acquired on February 11, 1997.
  
 <TABLE>
 <CAPTION>
                                                                THREE MONTHS
                                                               ENDED MARCH 31,
                                                               ---------------
                    INCOME STATEMENT DATA                       1998     1997
                    ---------------------                      ------   ------
 <S>                                                           <C>      <C>
 Net sales...................................................  100.0%   100.0%
                                                               =====    =====
 Gross profit................................................   12.0%    19.2%
 Selling and marketing.......................................  (2.9)    (3.1)
 General and administrative..................................  (3.4)    (3.2)
 Losses on sales of accounts receivable......................   (.5)     (.5)
 Amortization of intangible assets...........................  (1.0)     (.9)
 Management fees and services................................   (.3)    (1.2)
                                                               -----    -----
 Income from operations......................................    3.9     10.3
 Interest expense, net.......................................  (6.6)    (5.5)
 Other income................................................     --       --
                                                               -----    -----
 Income before income taxes..................................  (2.7)      4.8
 Provision for income taxes..................................  (1.3)      2.2
                                                               -----    -----
 Net income (loss)...........................................  (1.4)%     2.6%
                                                               =====    =====
 </TABLE>
  
 THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 1998 COMPARED TO THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 1997
  
      Net Sales for the three months ended March 31, 1998 increased by $11.8
 million, or 7.9%, to $161.6 million from $149.8 million for the three months
 ended March 31, 1997. Of this net sales increase, $3.3 million is attributable
 to owning Shade/Allied for the full first quarter of 1998 versus only one and a
 half months in the same period in 1997. The remaining $8.5 million of the net
 sales increase is due to higher sales at Ampad's existing operations, primarily
 sales to the fast growing customer channels, such as contract stationers, mass
 market and superstores.
  
      Gross Profit for the three months ended March 31, 1998 decreased by $9.3
 million, or 32.4%, to $19.4 million from $28.7 million for the three months
 ended March 31, 1997. Gross profit margin decreased to 12.0% for the three
 months ended March 31, 1998 from 19.2% for the three months ended March 31,
 1997. The decrease in gross profit margin is primarily attributable to a change
 in product mix, particularly the ongoing sales of continuous forms at
 unfavorable margins, a reduction in selling margins due to higher paper cost and
 competitive pricing pressures, and higher unit production costs due to
 underutilized capacity resulting from the Company's efforts to reduce its
 inventory.
  
      Selling and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 1998
 increased to $4.7 million from $4.6 million for the three months ended March 31,
 1997, an increase of $0.1 million. However, selling and marketing expenses as a
 percent of net sales decreased from 3.1% for the 1997 first quarter to 2.9% for
 the 1998 first quarter, reflecting the successful efforts in 1998 to control
 expenses.
  
      General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31,
 1998 increased to $5.4 million from $4.7 million for the three months ended
 March 31, 1997, an increase of $0.7 million. Of this increase, $0.1 million is
 attributable to owning Shade/Allied for the full first quarter of 1998 versus
 only one and a half months in the same period in 1997 and the remainder is
 attributable to increases in corporate expenses associated with the
 centralization of certain functions in Dallas.
  
      Losses on sales of accounts receivable for the three months ended March 31,
 1998 decreased to $0.7 million from $0.8 million for the three months ended
 March 31, 1997 due to a lower average level of
  
                                        10
 <PAGE>   11
  
 accounts receivable sold to the third party trust in the first quarter of 1998,
 partially offset by slightly higher average effective interest rates.
  
      Goodwill and intangible asset amortization expense for the three months
 ended March 31, 1998 increased to $1.6 million from $1.4 million for the three
 months ended March 31, 1997, an increase of $0.2 million, due primarily to a
 full quarter of amortization of goodwill associated with the acquisition of
 Shade/Allied.
  
      Management fees and services expense for the three months ended March 31,
 1998 amounted to $0.5 million as compared to $1.9 million for the three months
 ended March 31, 1997. The change in management fees is due primarily to a one
 year non-recurring consulting agreement with the former president of Niagara,
 which expired June 30, 1997.
  
      Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 1998 increased to
 $10.7 million from $8.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 1997, an
 increase of $2.5 million. Of this increase, $2.1 million of this increase is
 attributable to increased debt levels, $0.2 million is attributable increased
 interest rates and $0.2 million is attributable to an increase in financing fees
 amortization expense associated with the amended credit agreement.
  
      The income tax provision for the three month period ended March 31, 1998
 reflects an effective tax rate of 51.0% versus an effective tax rate of 45.0%
 for the three month period ended March 31, 1997. Due to the expected effect of
 nondeductible expenses during 1998, primarily goodwill amortization, the Company
 raised its effective income tax rate in 1998.
  
 KNOWN TRENDS AND SEASONALITY
  
      The Company does experience some seasonality in its business operations,
 primarily during the third and fourth quarters of each year. During those
 quarters, net sales tend to be higher than in the first and second quarters due
 to higher product sales of back-to-school, seasonal greeting card and tax filing
 products.
  
      The Company's Ampad division sells primarily to fast growing customers such
 as office products superstores, mass merchants and national contract stationers.
 Such customers periodically adjust the levels of inventory in the retail
 distribution channels, either in retail stores or in distribution centers. The
 Company has determined that lower than expected sales will occur during the
 quarters in which such adjustments are made. The Company is not able to predict
 the future effect of such adjustments; however, it is likely that its retail
 customers will continue to adjust inventory levels in future quarters.
  
      The Company's gross profit is directly affected by, among other factors,
 the mix of products sold. Based on the Company's current product categories, the
 Company's gross profit will be negatively or positively affected as the actual
 product sales mix changes.
  
 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
  
      Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March
 31, 1998 was $16.3 million as compared to net cash used by operating activities
 for the three months ended March 31, 1997 of $13.9 million. This increase is
 primarily the net result of the following: (i) cash provided from net income of
 $3.6 million after adjustment for non-cash expenses, (ii) a decrease in accounts
 receivable of $33 million as a result of collection of year end receivable
 balances and improving days sales outstanding in receivables, (iii) an increase
 in inventories of $2.8 million, (iv) a reduction in accrued expenses of $5.3
 million as annual customer volume rebates were paid early in 1998, (v) a
 reduction of accounts payable of $10.8 million, (vi) receipt of tax refunds of
 $3.3 million, and (vii) an increase in deferred tax assets and other assets of
 $4.7 million.
  
      Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 1998
 and 1997 was $6.0 million and $54.5 million, respectively. The first quarter
 1998 use was due to the purchase of equipment. The first quarter 1997 use was
 due to the Shade/Allied acquisition of $50.5 million and purchases of equipment
 of $4.0 million.
  
                                        11
 <PAGE>   12
  
      Net cash provided by financing activities during the first three months of
 1998 and 1997 was $3.1 million and $67.3 million, respectively. The first
 quarter 1998 cash provided primarily resulted from repayment of $23.0 million in
 financing outstanding under the accounts receivable credit facility, payment of
 financing fees of $1.4 million and borrowings of $27.6 million under the bank
 credit agreement to finance: (i) repayment of the accounts receivable facility,
 (ii) the purchases of equipment and (iii) its working capital needs, including
 the accumulation of cash on the balance sheet. Assuming that the $18.4 million
 of cash at March 31, 1998 was used to repay outstanding debt, the Company would
 have reduced its balance sheet and off balance sheet debt by approximately $9.0
 million. During the first quarter of 1997, the Company repaid $13.0 million in
 notes outstanding under its accounts receivable credit facility and borrowed
 $79.8 million to finance (i) such repayment, (ii) the acquisition of
 Shade/Allied, (iii) the purchases of equipment and (iv) its working capital
 needs.
  
      In February 1998, the Company and its banking group agreed to an increase
 in the size of the revolving credit agreement from $300.0 million to $330.0
 million for a period of one year. After such time, the level of debt available
 under such credit agreement will be reduced to $300.0 million. In December 1997,
 February 1998 and April 1998, certain covenants in the credit agreement were
 also modified at the end of 1997 and for a one year period ending in February
 1999. Unless approved by the banking group, the Company will be restricted to
 $15.0 million in net capital expenditures for 1998 and will be restricted from
 any acquisitions. The interest cost incurred by the Company will vary each
 quarter in 1998 depending on the Company's consolidated debt to EBITDA ratio at
 the beginning of each quarter. The Company paid fees and expenses of $1.4
 million to its banking group and lawyers as part of the amendments to the credit
 agreement.
  
      The ability of the Company to meet its debt service obligations and reduce
 its total debt will be dependent upon the future performance of the Company and
 its subsidiaries which, in turn, will be subject to general economic conditions
 and to financial, business and other factors, including factors beyond the
 Company's control. A portion of the consolidated debt of the Company bears
 interest at floating rates; therefore, its financial condition is and will
 continue to be affected by changes in prevailing interest rates. The Company has
 entered into an interest rate protection agreement to minimize the impact from a
 rise in interest rates.
  
      Management believes that based on current levels of operations and
 anticipated internal growth, cash flow from operations, together with other
 available sources of funds including borrowings under the bank credit agreement
 and the accounts receivable facility and available cash on hand at March 31,
 1998 of $18.4 million, will be adequate for 1998 to make required payments of
 principal and interest on the Company's indebtedness, to fund anticipated
 capital expenditures, including anticipated capital expenditures of
 approximately $9 million during the remainder of 1998, and to meet working
 capital requirements.
  
      The amount of debt available under the Company's current credit agreement
 decreases by $30.0 million in February 1999 and by an additional $50.0 million
 in July 1999. Based on the Company's current level of operating results and the
 expected operating results in 1998 and 1999, the Company expects that the
 reduction of $30.0 million in February 1999 will not have a significant effect
 on its operations. However, the reduction in available borrowing of $50.0
 million in mid-1999 may require the Company to explore other financing
 alternatives, including but not limited to a refinancing of its bank debt,
 raising new private or public debt, raising additional public equity capital,
 reducing the level of capital expenditures, reducing operating costs and selling
 certain assets. In the event that the Company is not able to successfully
 complete the financing alternatives just described the Company and its banking
 group would be required to negotiate revisions to the terms of the credit
 agreement.
  
 INFLATION
  
      The Company believes that inflation has not had a material impact on its
 results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 1998 and 1997.
  
 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
  
      The Company is including the following cautionary statement in this Form
 10-Q to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the
 Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any
                                        12
 <PAGE>   13
  
 forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the Company.
 Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans, objectives,
 goals, strategies, future events or performance, and underlying assumptions and
 other statements which are other than statements of historical facts. From time
 to time, the Company may publish or otherwise make available forward-looking
 statements of this nature. All such subsequent forward-looking statements,
 whether written or oral and whether made by or on behalf of the Company, are
 also expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. Certain statements
 contained herein are forward-looking statements and accordingly involve risks
 and uncertainties, which could cause actual results, or outcomes to differ
 materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. The
 forward-looking statements contained herein are based on various assumptions,
 many of which are based, in turn, upon further assumptions. The Company's
 expectations, beliefs and projections are expressed in good faith and are
 believed by the Company to have a reasonable basis, including without
 limitation, management's examination of historical operating trends, data
 contained in the Company's records and other data available from third parties,
 but there can be no assurance that management's expectation, beliefs or
 projections will result or be achieved or accomplished. In addition to the other
 factors and matters discussed elsewhere herein, the following are important
 factors that, in the view of the Company, could cause actual results to differ
 materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements:
  
           1. Changes in economic conditions, in particular those, which affect
      the retail and wholesale office product markets.
  
           2. Changes in the availability and/or price of paper, in particular if
      increases in the price of paper are not passed along to the Company's
      customers.
  
           3. Changes in senior management or control of the Company.
  
           4. Inability to obtain new customers or retain existing ones.
  
           5. Significant changes in competitive factors, including product
      pricing conditions, affecting the Company.
  
           6. Governmental/regulatory actions and initiatives, including, those
      affecting financings.
  
           7. Significant changes from expectations in actual capital
      expenditures and operating expenses.
  
           8. Occurrences affecting the Company's ability to obtain funds from
      operations, debt or equity to finance needed capital expenditures and other
      investments.
  
           9. Significant changes in rates of interest, inflation or taxes.
  
           10. Significant changes in the Company's relationship with its
      employees and the potential adverse effects if labor disputes or grievance
      were to occur.
  
           11. Changes in accounting principles and/or the application of such
      principles to the Company.
  
      The foregoing factors could affect the Company's actual results and could
 cause the Company's actual results during 1998 and beyond to be materially
 different from any anticipated results expressed in any forward-looking
 statement made by or on behalf of the Company.
  
      The Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking
 statements to reflect events or other circumstances after date hereof.
  
                                        13
 <PAGE>   14
  
                           PART II -- OTHER INFORMATION
  
