         OF OPERATIONS
 
          The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the
 accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and the related
 footnotes included in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as the
 consolidated financial statements, related footnotes and management's discussion
 and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the Company's
 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998.
 
 1998 ACQUISITIONS
 
          On March 30, 1998, the Company, through a wholly-owned subsidiary,
 acquired approximately 81% of the total number of then outstanding shares of
 common stock of Coleman from an affiliate of M&F, in exchange for 14,099,749
 shares of the Company's common stock and approximately $160 million in cash. In
 addition, the Company assumed approximately $1,016 million in debt. Immediately
 thereafter, as a result of the exercise of employee stock options, Sunbeam's
 indirect beneficial ownership of Coleman decreased to approximately 79% of the
 total number of the outstanding shares of Coleman common stock. The Company's
 agreement for the acquisition of the remaining publicly held Coleman shares
 pursuant to a merger transaction provides that the remaining Coleman
 shareholders will receive approximately 6.7 million shares of Sunbeam common
 stock (0.5677 share for each outstanding Coleman share) and approximately $87
 million in cash ($6.44 for each outstanding Coleman share and the cash-out of
 unexercised Coleman options for an amount equal to the difference between $27.50
 per share and the exercise price of such options). The Company expects to
 complete the Coleman merger during the second half of 1999, although there can
 be no assurance that the merger will occur during that time.
 
          On October 21, 1998, the Company announced that it had entered into a
 Memorandum of Understanding to settle, subject to Court approval, class action
 claims made by minority shareholders of Coleman relating to the Coleman merger.
 Under the terms of the proposed settlement, if approved by the Court, the
 Company will issue to the Coleman public shareholders, and plaintiff's counsel
 in this action, warrants to purchase up to 4.98 million shares of the Company's
 common stock at a cash exercise price of $7.00 per share, subject to certain
 anti-dilution provisions. These warrants would generally have the same terms as
 the warrants issued to an affiliate of M&F and will be issued when the Coleman
 merger is consummated. Issuance of these warrants will be accounted for as
 additional purchase consideration. There can be no assurance that the Court will
 approve the settlement as proposed.
 
          On April 6, 1998, the Company completed the cash acquisitions of First
 Alert, a leading manufacturer of smoke and carbon monoxide detectors, and
 Signature Brands, a leading manufacturer of consumer and professional products.
 The First Alert and the Signature Brands acquisitions were valued at
 approximately $182 million (including $133 million of cash and $49 million of
 assumed debt) and $255 million (reflecting cash paid, including the required
 retirement or defeasance of debt), respectively.
 
          The acquisitions were recorded under the purchase method of accounting
 and accordingly, the financial position and results of operations of each
 acquired entity are included in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 from the respective dates of acquisition. The purchase prices of the acquired
 entities have been allocated to individual assets acquired and liabilities
 assumed based on estimates of fair values (determined by independent appraisals)
 at the dates of acquisition.
 
 THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 1999 COMPARED TO THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 1998
 
          Results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 1999 include
 the results of the three acquired companies for the entire period as compared to
 results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 1998, which only
 included the results of Coleman from March 30, 1998. The acquired entities
 generated net sales of $347.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 1999,
 with a corresponding gross margin of $99.9 million, or 28.7% of net sales.
 Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") costs recorded by the acquired
 entities were $84.7 million in the period, yielding operating income of $15.2
 million. Results for the first quarter of 1998 included net sales from Coleman
 of approximately $15 million, with a corresponding gross margin of approximately
 $4 million, and SG&A expenses of approximately $4 million.
 
          For the acquired entities, net sales for the three months ended March
 31, 1999 were approximately $30 million higher than their results for the full
 first quarter a year ago. This increase was attributable to increased net sales
 at Coleman (approximately $26 million) and Signature Brands (approximately $5
 million), partially offset by a decrease in net sales at First Alert
 (approximately $1 million). Excluding the revenue of Coleman's safety and
 security business and spa business, both of which were sold in 1998, Coleman's
 net sales in the first three months of 1999 would have been approximately $47
 million higher than the same period in 1998. The increase in Coleman net sales
 is reflective of strong retail replenishment demand in its outdoor recreation
 products as compared with unusually weak retail replenishment demand in the
 first quarter of 1998. Additionally, increased generator revenues attributable
 to increased awareness of power shortages from poor weather conditions and other
 events contributed to the higher net sales. Excluding: (i) the effects of
 purchase accounting of approximately $9 million recognized in 1999; (ii)
 acquisition costs of approximately $18 million which were incurred in the first
 quarter of 1998; and (iii) approximately $3 million of costs recorded in 1999
 related to Year 2000 compliance efforts, operating profit for these three
 companies improved by approximately $36 million as compared to the same period
 in the prior year, resulting primarily from higher net sales and a reduction in
 expenses largely attributable to reduced headcount and the centralization of
 certain management and administration functions, resulting from the acquisition
 by Sunbeam.
 
                                        13
 <PAGE>
 
          Consolidated net sales for the three months ended March 31, 1999 were
 $523.9 million, an increase of $276.3 million versus the three months ended
 March 31, 1998. After excluding $347.8 million of net sales generated by the
 acquired entities in the 1999 period and approximately $15 million in the 1998
 period, as discussed above, net sales of $176.1 million decreased approximately
 24% from net sales of $233.0 million in 1998. The Company believes the decrease
 in product sales were largely driven by increases in retail inventory levels
 from channel loading which took place in the first quarter of 1998, but not in
 the 1999 period. The adverse effect of the 1998 channel loading was partially
 offset by lower estimated provisions for customer returns and customer
 allowances of approximately $7 million.
 
          Domestic sales, excluding the acquired companies, declined
 approximately 15% or $26 million from 1998. The Company believes this sales
 decline is attributable to the channel loading that took place in the first
 quarter of 1998 versus no similar loading in the same period in 1999. The
 channel loading that took place in 1998 led to relatively lower sales of
 appliances, primarily blenders, breadmakers, handmixers and irons in 1999, as
 well as lower sales of outdoor cooking products. Partially offsetting the
 adverse effects of channel loading was a benefit from reduced costs in 1999 from
 customer returns and allowances.
 
          International sales, excluding the acquired companies, represented 17%
 of net sales for 1999 and decreased approximately $31 million as compared with
 the net sales for the same period a year ago. The Company believes this sales
 decline was largely attributable to the previously discussed impact of
 increasing retail inventory levels in the first quarter of 1998. Sales were also
 adversely impacted in 1999 by a decision to stop selling to certain export
 distributors in Latin America. Additionally, poor economic conditions in that
 region contributed to lower sales in 1999.
 
          Excluding the effect of the gross margin generated from the inclusion
 of the acquired entities' operations of $99.9 million in 1999 and approximately
 $4 million in 1998, as discussed above, gross margin was $23.2 million or 13.2%
 of sales for 1999 versus a gross margin of $29.7 million or 12.7% of net sales
 for 1998. Lower sales volume and unfavorable manufacturing efficiencies
 resulting from lower production levels in 1999 accounted for approximately $18
 million of the change between years. This was partially offset by a lower
 relative rate of product returns, reduced customer allowances of approximately
 $7 million, and improved product mix of approximately $2 million during the
 first quarter of 1999 as compared to the same period in 1998.
 
          Excluding the effects of: (i) $84.7 million of SG&A charges in 1999 and
 approximately $4 million in 1998 resulting from the inclusion of the acquired
 entities; (ii) approximately $31 million of 1998 compensation expense recorded
 in connection with new employment agreements with the three former senior
 officers; (iii) a $3.0 million benefit in 1998 from the reversal of reserves no
 longer required, and (iv) $5.3 million of costs recorded in the 1999 period
 related to Year 2000 compliance efforts, SG&A expenses were approximately $47.9
 million in the first quarter of 1999, 22.0% higher than the same period in 1998.
 This increase of approximately $9 million is primarily due to an increase in
 corporate administrative costs of approximately $5 million, reflecting
 additional personnel and related relocation, travel and related costs and
 increases in postretirement benefit costs. Increases in insurance and higher
 costs associated with outside services account for the remainder of the increase
 in SG&A.
 
          Operating results for the first quarters of 1999 and 1998 for the
 Sunbeam business before the 1998 acquisitions on a comparable basis as described
 above, were a loss of $24.7 million in 1999 and a loss of $9.6 million in 1998.
 On the same basis, operating margins as a percent of net sales decreased to a
 loss of 15.0% from a loss of 4.1% in the prior year. This change resulted from
 the factors discussed above.
 
          Interest expense increased from $5.1 million in the first quarter of
 1998 to $41.9 million in the first quarter of 1999 primarily related to higher
 borrowing levels in 1999 resulting from borrowings for the acquisitions that
 were outstanding for the entire quarter.
 
          Other expense, net of $0.8 million for the first three months of 1999
 included approximately $1.0 million relating to liquidating damages expensed
 related to holders of the Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Subordinated Debentures
 due 2018 (the "Debentures") (see Note 3 to the condensed consolidated financial
 statements), partially offset by favorable foreign exchange. Other expense, net
 of $3.2 million for the first three months of 1998 primarily represents foreign
 exchange losses, largely arising from Sunbeam's operations in Mexico.
 
          The minority interest reported in 1999 relates to the minority interest
 held in Coleman by public shareholders.
 
          The Company provided for deferred tax expense in 1999 primarily due to
 taxable income in foreign jurisdictions. Deferred tax assets resulting from
 operating losses, incurred predominantly in domestic jurisdictions, were
 recorded and valuation allowances were established for substantially all such
 deferred tax assets. The Company's losses and related valuation allowances
 caused the reported tax rate to differ from the statutory rate.
 
          In 1998, the Company prepaid an industrial revenue bond related to its
 Hattiesburg facility. In connection with this early extinguishment of debt, the
 Company recognized an extraordinary charge of $8.6 million, consisting primarily
 of redemption premiums.
 
 FOREIGN OPERATIONS
 
          Approximately 75% of the Company's business is conducted in U.S.
 dollars (including both domestic sales, U.S. dollar denominated export sales,
 primarily to certain Latin American markets, Asian sales and the majority of
 European sales). The Company's non-U.S. dollar denominated sales are made
 principally by subsidiaries in Europe, Canada, Japan, Latin America and Mexico.
 Mexico reverted to a hyperinflationary status for accounting purposes in 1997;
 therefore, translation adjustments related to Mexican net monetary assets were
 included as a component of net (loss) earnings. Mexico is not considered
 hyperinflationary as of January 1, 1999. This change in
 
                                        14
 <PAGE>
 
 Mexico's hyperinflationary status is not expected to have a material effect on
 the Company's financial results. Translation adjustments resulting from the
 Company's non-U.S. denominated subsidiaries have not had a material impact on
 the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
          While revenues generated in Asia have traditionally not been
 significant, economic instability in this region is expected to have a negative
 effect on earnings. Economic instability and the political environment in Latin
 America have also affected sales in that region. It is anticipated that sales in
 and exports to these regions will continue to be impacted so long as the
 economic environments in those regions remain unsettled.
 
          On a limited basis, the Company selectively uses derivatives (foreign
 exchange option and forward contracts) to manage foreign exchange exposures that
 arise in the normal course of business. No derivative contracts are entered into
 for trading or speculative purposes. The use of derivatives has not had a
 material impact on the Company's financial results.
 
 SEASONALITY
 
          Sunbeam's sales, prior to the acquisitions, have not traditionally
 exhibited substantial seasonality; however, sales have been strongest during the
 fourth quarter of the calendar year. Additionally, sales of outdoor cooking
 products are strongest in the first half of the year, while sales of appliances,
 personal care and blanket products are strongest in the second half of the year.
 After considering the seasonality of the acquired entities, Sunbeam's
 consolidated sales are not expected to exhibit substantial seasonality; however,
 sales are expected to be strongest during the second quarter of the calendar
 year. Furthermore, sales of a number of products, including warming blankets,
 vaporizers, humidifiers, grills, First Alert products, camping and generator
 products may be impacted by unseasonable weather conditions.
 
 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
          In order to finance the acquisition of Coleman, First Alert and
 Signature Brands and to refinance substantially all of the indebtedness of the
 Company and the three acquired entities, the Company consummated the offering of
 the Debentures at a yield to maturity of 5% (approximately $2,014 million
 principal amount at maturity) in March 1998, which resulted in approximately
 $730 million of net proceeds, and entered into the New Credit Facility.
 
          The Company was required to file a registration statement with the
 Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") to register the Debentures by June
 23, 1998. This registration statement was filed on February 4, 1999 and the SEC
 has not declared the registration statement effective. Sunbeam's failure to file
 the registration statement by June 23, 1998 did not constitute default under the
 terms of the Debentures. The Company has filed an amendment to this registration
 statement. From June 23, 1998 until the registration statement is declared
 effective, the Company is required to pay to the Debenture holders cash
 liquidated damages accruing, for each day during such period, at a rate per
 annum equal to 0.25% during the first 90 days and 0.50% thereafter multiplied by
 the total of the issue price of the Debentures plus the original issue discount
 thereon on such day. The Company made its first payment of approximately $0.5
 million to the Debenture holders on September 25, 1998 and an additional $2.0
 million was made on March 25, 1999.
 
          Concurrent with the Debenture offering, the Company replaced its $250
 million syndicated unsecured five-year revolving credit facility with the New
 Credit Facility. The New Credit Facility provided for aggregate borrowings of up
 to $1.7 billion. As a result of its operating losses incurred in fiscal 1998,
 among other things, the Company was not in compliance with certain covenants set
 forth in the New Credit Facility. The Company and its lenders entered into
 agreements as of June 30, 1998, October 19, 1998 and April 10, 1999, in each
 case providing for waivers of compliance with such covenants and other terms of
 the New Credit Facility. Effective April 15, 1999, Sunbeam and its lenders
 entered into an agreement, which waived compliance with such covenants and other
 terms through April 10, 2000 and provided for new financial covenants. The
 following description of the New Credit Facility reflects the terms of the New
 Credit Facility as amended April 15, 1999.
 
          The New Credit Facility provided for aggregate borrowings of up to $1.7
 billion pursuant to: (i) a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal
 amount of up to $400 million maturing March 30, 2005 ($52.5 million of which may
 only be used to complete the Coleman merger if the Coleman merger is not
 completed prior to August 31, 1999); (ii) $800 million in term loans maturing on
 March 30, 2005 (of which $35.0 million may only be used to complete the Coleman
 merger) and (iii) a $500 million term loan maturing September 30, 2006. As of
 March 31, 1999, approximately $1.5 billion was outstanding and $0.2 billion was
 available for borrowing under the New Credit Facility.
 
          Pursuant to the New Credit Facility, interest accrues, at the Company's
 option: (i) at the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), or (ii) at the base
 rate of the administrative agent which is generally the higher of the prime
 commercial lending rate of the administrative agent or the Federal Funds Rate
 plus 0.50%, in each case plus an agreed upon interest margin which is currently
 3.25% for LIBOR borrowings and 2.00% for base rate borrowings. The applicable
 interest margin is subject to downward adjustment upon the occurrence of certain
 events. Borrowings under the New Credit Facility are secured by a pledge of the
 stock of the Company's material subsidiaries, including Coleman, and by a
 security interest in substantially all of the assets of Sunbeam and its material
 domestic subsidiaries, other than Coleman and its material subsidiaries except
 as described below. Currently, Coleman's inventory and related assets are
 pledged to secure its obligations for letters of credit issued for its account
 under the New Credit Facility. Additionally, as security for Coleman's note
 payable to the Company, Coleman pledged substantially all of its domestic
 assets, other than real property, including 66% of the stock of its
 
                                        15
 <PAGE>
 
 direct foreign subsidiaries and domestic holding companies for its foreign
 subsidiaries, and all of the stock of its other direct domestic subsidiaries
 (but not the assets of Coleman's subsidiaries). The pledge runs in favor of
 Sunbeam's lending banks, to which the Coleman note has been pledged as security
 for Sunbeam's obligations to them. Upon completion of the Coleman merger,
 substantially all of Coleman's assets and the assets of Coleman's domestic
 subsidiaries will be pledged to secure the obligations under the New Credit
 Facility. In addition, borrowings under the New Credit Facility are guaranteed
 by a number of the Company's wholly owned material domestic subsidiaries and
 these subsidiary guarantees are secured as described above. Upon completion of
 the Coleman merger, Coleman and each of its United States subsidiaries will
 become guarantors of the obligations under the New Credit Facility. To the
 extent borrowings are made by any subsidiaries of the Company, the obligations
 of such subsidiaries are guaranteed by the Company.
 
          It is an event of default under the New Credit Facility if Sunbeam's
 registration statement in connection with the Coleman merger is not declared
 effective by the SEC on or before October 30, 1999 or if the merger does not
 occur within 25 business days of the effectiveness of the registration statement
 or if the cash consideration (including any payments on account of the exercise
 of any appraisal rights, but excluding related legal, accounting and other
 customary fees and expenses) to consummate the Coleman merger exceeds $87.5
 million. Although there can be no assurance, the Company anticipates that it
 will satisfy these conditions. Unless waived by the bank lenders, the failure to
 satisfy these requirements (as with the occurrence of any other event of
 default) would permit the bank lenders to accelerate the maturity of all
 outstanding borrowings under the New Credit Facility. The New Credit Facility
 also includes provisions for the deferral of the 1999 scheduled term loan
 payments of $69.3 million, subject to delivery of certain collateral documents
 and the filing of an amendment to the Company's registration statement on Form
 S-4 relating to the Coleman merger. These conditions have been met and the
 scheduled loan payments were extended until April 10, 2000. (See Note 3 of Notes
 to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.)
 
          As of March 31, 1999, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of
 $46.2 million, working capital excluding cash and cash equivalents of $385.5
 million and total debt of $2.3 billion. Cash used in operating activities during
 the first quarter of 1999 was $57.5 million compared to $134.7 million in the
 first quarter of 1998. This change is primarily attributable to working capital
 improvements partially offset by lower earnings after giving effect to non-cash
 charges. The majority of the working capital improvements are attributable the
 Company's management of inventory levels and accounts receivable. Inventories
 and receivables increased $65.9 million and $57.1 million, respectively, in the
 first quarter of 1998 as compared to $20.9 million and $35.8 million,
 respectively, in the first quarter of 1999. In 1998, the Company built inventory
 levels in anticipation of sales volumes that did not materialize and offered
 extended credit terms to its customers. The increase in inventory during the
 first quarter of 1999 is largely due to the seasonal inventory build in the
 Company's Outdoor Leisure division. The Company participates in an accounts
 receivable securitization program to finance a portion of its accounts
 receivable. (See Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial
 Statements.)
 
          In the first quarter of 1999, cash used in investing activities was
 driven by capital expenditures of $16.3 million, primarily for information
 systems and equipment and tooling for new products. Capital spending in the
 comparable 1998 period was $19.5 million and was primarily for capacity
 expansion initiatives, including the Neosho grill manufacturing facility, and
 equipment and tooling for new products. The new product capital spending in the
 1998 period principally related to the appliance category and included costs
 related to water and air filtration products, blenders, standmixers and irons.
 Cash used in investing activities in the first quarter of 1998 reflects $160.6
 million for the acquisition of approximately 81% of Coleman. The Company
 anticipates 1999 capital spending to be approximately 4% to 5% of net sales,
 primarily related to information systems and related support, including
 expenditures for Year 2000 readiness, new product introductions and capacity
 additions.
 
          Cash provided by financing activities totaled $58.7 million in the
 first quarter of 1999 and reflects net borrowings under the Company's New Credit
 Facility. Cash provided by financing activities in the first quarter of 1998 was
 $456.1 million and reflects net proceeds from the Debentures of $729.6 million,
 the cancellation and repayment of all outstanding balances under the Company's
 $250 million September 1996 revolving credit facility, the repayment of certain
 Coleman debt and the early extinguishment of the $75.0 million Hattiesburg bond.
 In addition, cash provided by financing activities is net of $25.1 million of
 financing fees related to the Company's $1.7 billion New Credit Facility and
 $19.0 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. (See Note 3 to the
 condensed consolidated financial statements.)
 
          The Company expects to acquire the remaining equity interest in Coleman
 pursuant to a merger transaction in which the existing Coleman minority
 shareholders will receive 0.5677 share of the Company's common stock, $6.44 in
 cash for each share of Coleman common stock outstanding and, subject to court
 approval, warrants to purchase common stock of the Company at a cash exercise
 price of $7.00 per share. In addition, unexercised options under Coleman's stock
 option plans will be cashed out at a price per share equal to the difference
 between $27.50 and the exercise price of such options. The Company expects to
 issue approximately 6.7 million shares of common stock and expend approximately
 $87 million in cash, including cash paid to option holders, to complete the
 Coleman transaction. Although there can be no assurance, it is anticipated that
 the Coleman merger will occur in the second half of fiscal 1999.
 
          The Company believes its borrowing capacity under the New Credit
 Facility, cash flow from the combined operations of the Company and its acquired
 companies, existing cash and cash equivalent balances, and its receivable
 securitization program will be sufficient to support working capital needs,
 capital and Year 2000 compliance spending, and debt service through April 10,
 2000. The Company intends to negotiate with its lenders on an amendment to the
 New Credit Facility, negotiate with its lenders on further waiver of such
 covenants and other terms, or refinance the New Credit Facility. Any decisions
 with respect to such amendment, waiver, or refinancing will be made based on a
 review from time to time of the advisability of particular transactions. There
 can be no assurance that an amendment, further waiver of existing covenants and
 other terms, or refinancing will be entered into by April 10, 2000. The failure
 to obtain such an amendment, further waiver or debt refinancing would likely
 result in violation of the existing covenants and compliance
 
                                        16
 <PAGE>
 
 with other terms, which would permit the bank lenders to accelerate the maturity
 of all outstanding borrowings under the New Credit Facility. Accordingly, debt
 related to the New Credit Facility and all debt containing cross-default
 provisions will be classified as current in the Condensed Consolidated Balance
 Sheet in the second quarter of 1999.
 
 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 
          Effective January 1, 1999, the Company adopted Statement of Position
 98-1, ACCOUNTING FOR THE COSTS OF COMPUTER SOFTWARE DEVELOPED OR OBTAINED FOR
 INTERNAL USE ("SOP 98-1"). SOP 98-1 requires computer software costs associated
 with internal use software to be expensed as incurred until certain
 capitalization criteria are met. Adoption of this statement did not have a
 material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position,
 results of operations, or cash flows.
 
          In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
 of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 ("SFAS No. 133"), ACCOUNTING FOR
 DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES, which is effective for fiscal
 years beginning after June 15, 1999. SFAS No. 133 requires the recognition of
 all derivatives in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as either assets or
 liabilities measured at fair value. The Company has not yet determined the
 impact SFAS No. 133 will have on its consolidated financial position, results of
 operations, or cash flows.
 
 YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE
 
          The Company is preparing for the impact of the Year 2000 on its
 operations. Year 2000 issues could include potential problems in the information
 technology ("IT") and non-IT systems that the Company uses in its operations and
 problems in the Company's products. Year 2000 system failures could affect
 routine but critical operations such as forecasting, purchasing, production,
 order processing, inventory control, shipping, billing and collection. In
 addition, system failures could affect the Company's security, payroll
 operations, or employee safety. The Company may also be exposed to potential
 risks from third parties with whom the Company interacts who fail to adequately
 address their own Year 2000 issues.
 
 SUNBEAM'S APPROACH TO YEAR 2000 ISSUES
 
          While the Company's Year 2000 readiness planning has been underway for
 over one year, during the third quarter of 1998 the Company established a
 cross-functional project team consisting of senior managers, assisted by three
 external consulting firms which were retained to provide consulting services and
 to assist the Company in implementing its Year 2000 strategy. This team is
 sponsored by the Company's Chief Financial Officer who reports directly to the
 Company's Chief Executive Officer on this issue. The Audit Committee of the
 Board of Directors is advised periodically on the status of the Company's Year
 2000 readiness program.
 
          The Year 2000 project team has developed a phased approach to identify
 and resolve Year 2000 issues with many of these activities conducted in
 parallel. The Company's approach and the anticipated timing of each phase are
 described below.
 
          PHASE 1 - INVENTORY AND ASSESSMENT: During the first phase of Sunbeam's
 Year 2000 readiness program, the Company established a Year 2000 Program
 Management Office ("PMO") to centralize the management of all of the Company's
 Year 2000 projects. Through this office, the Company developed a corporate-wide,
 uniform strategy for assessing and addressing the Year 2000 issues.
 
          The Company has completed an inventory of its hardware and software
 systems, manufacturing equipment, electronic data interchange,
 telecommunications and other technical assets potentially subject to Year 2000
 problems, such as security systems and controls for lighting, air conditioning,
 ventilation and facility access. This inventory was then entered into the
 Company's Year 2000 database along with a determination of the item's level of
 criticality to operations. For those inventory items anticipated to have a
 significant effect on the business if not corrected, the Company's Year 2000
 program envisions repair or replacement and testing of such items. All
 information relative to each item is being tracked in the Company's Year 2000
 database. The Company completed most of this phase during the third and fourth
 quarters of 1998. The Company has completed a review of the readiness of
 embedded microprocessors in its products and determined that none of the
 Company's products have Year 2000 date sensitive systems.
 
          PHASE 2 - CORRECTION AND TESTING: The second phase of Sunbeam's Year
 2000 readiness program is structured to replace, upgrade or remediate (as
 necessary) those items identified during Phase 1 as requiring corrective action.
 
          Sunbeam relies on its IT functions to perform many tasks that are
 critical to its operations. Significant transactions that could be impacted by
 not being ready for any Year 2000 issues include, among others, purchases of
 materials, production management, order entry and fulfillment, and payroll
 processing. Systems and applications that have been identified by Sunbeam to
 date as not currently Year 2000 ready and which are critical to Sunbeam's
 operations include its financial software systems, which process the order
 entry, purchasing, production management, general ledger, accounts receivable,
 and accounts payable functions, payroll applications, and critical applications
 in the Company's manufacturing and distribution facilities, such as warehouse
 management applications. In 1997, the Company began implementing a uniform
 international business and accounting information system to improve internal
 reporting processes. Based upon representations from the manufacturer that the
 current version of this uniform information system is Year 2000 ready, the
 Company has been actively upgrading its business sites that currently utilize
 this uniform system to the Year 2000 ready version. A small number of other
 Company business locations are replacing their current non-Year 2000 ready
 systems with this new uniform system.
 
                                        17
 <PAGE>
 
          The Company is also actively replacing and/or upgrading legacy business
 systems that are not Year 2000 ready, including those that use localized
 business system packages which were not candidates to be replaced by the uniform
 business and accounting information system. With respect to the Company's non-IT
 systems (for example, time and attendance, security, and in-line manufacturing
 hardware) the Company is actively analyzing these items to assess any Year 2000
 issues. To date, no material issues have been discovered, and the Company will
 continue to review, test and correct, if necessary, such items.
 
          Sunbeam plans to complete the corrective work described above with
 respect to its systems by the second quarter of 1999 with final testing and
 implementation of such systems occurring in the second and third quarters of
 1999.
 
          PHASE 3 - CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS: The third phase
 of Sunbeam's Year 2000 readiness program which was initiated during the third
 and fourth quarters of 1998 is designed to assess and interact with the
 Company's customers, suppliers, and business partners. As part of this effort,
 the Company surveyed 1,100 vendors and suppliers determined to be critical to
 the Company. Based on the survey, the Company believes that there is only a low
 to medium risk of Year 2000 issues for approximately three-quarters of its
 vendors; however, a small number of vendors have been identified as high risk
 (less than 5%) and approximately one-quarter of the vendors did not respond
 fully to the survey. The Company will continue its vendor evaluation and
 assessment process through 1999, including direct contact with high and medium
 risk vendors and vendors who have not responded fully to the Company's survey.
 The Company has not independently verified the responses of vendors and does not
 anticipate undertaking such independent verification process.
 
          Beginning in the second quarter of 1999, Sunbeam will also contact its
 major customers to confirm their preparations for Year 2000 issues. The Company
 has already responded to numerous customer inquiries and believes that all of
 the Company's major customers have established programs to deal with Year 2000
 issues. In order to improve the Company's communication with its customers,
 suppliers and business partners, the Company has set up a Sunbeam Year 2000
 telephone number and is in the process of providing Year 2000 information on a
 Company web site.
 
          PHASE 4 - CONTINGENCY PLANNING: This phase will involve contingency
 planning for unresolved Year 2000 issues, particularly any issues arising with
 third party suppliers. The Company's Year 2000 readiness program is ongoing and
 its ultimate scope, as well as the consideration of contingency plans, will
 continue to be evaluated as new information becomes available. As a
 precautionary measure, Sunbeam plans to establish a contingency plan for
 addressing any effects of the Year 2000 on its operations, whether due to
 Sunbeam's systems or those of third parties not being ready for any Year 2000
 issues. Sunbeam expects to complete such contingency plan by September 30, 1999;
 such contingency plan will address alternative processes, such as manual
 procedures, electronic spreadsheets, potential alternative service providers,
 and plans to address Year 2000 readiness issues as they arise.
 
 THE RISKS OF SUNBEAM'S YEAR 2000 APPROACH
 
          The independent consultants assisting the Company in its Year 2000
 readiness program have reviewed and concurred with the Company's approach, have
 assisted in developing cost estimates and have monitored costs for the largest
 single component (upgrade or installation of the Company's uniform system) of
 the Company's Year 2000 program. As a result, although the Company did not
 engage an independent third party to verify the program's overall approach or
 total cost, the Company believes that the Company's exposure in this regard is
 mitigated. In addition, through the use of external third-party diagnostic tools
 which helped to identify potential Year 2000 issues in one significant business
 operation, the Company believes that it has also mitigated its risk by
 validating and verifying key program components.
 
          Management believes that, although there are significant systems that
 are being modified or replaced, Sunbeam's information systems environment will
 be made Year 2000 ready prior to January 1, 2000. Sunbeam's failure to timely
 complete such corrective work could have a material adverse impact on the
 Company.
 
          With respect to customers, suppliers and business partners, the failure
 of certain of these third parties to become Year 2000 ready could also have a
 material adverse impact on Sunbeam. For example, the failure of certain of the
 Company's principal suppliers to have Year 2000 ready internal systems could
 impact the Company's ability to manufacture and/or ship its products or to
 maintain adequate inventory levels for production.
 
          At this time, the Company believes that the most likely "worst-case"
 scenario relating to Year 2000 involves potential disruptions in areas in which
 the Company's operations must rely on third parties, such as suppliers, whose
 systems may not work properly after January 1, 2000. While such system failures
 could either directly or indirectly affect important operations of the Company
 and its subsidiaries in a significant manner, the Company cannot at present
 estimate either the likelihood or the potential cost of such failures. Subject
 to the nature of the goods or services provided to the Company by third parties
 whose operations are not made ready for Year 2000 issues, the impact on
 Sunbeam's operations could be material if appropriate contingency plans cannot
 be developed prior to January 1, 2000.
 
          The nature and focus of the Company's efforts to address the Year 2000
 problem may be revised periodically as interim goals are achieved or new issues
 are identified. In addition, it is important to note that the description of the
 Company's efforts and assessments necessarily involves estimates and projections
 with respect to activities required in the future. These estimates and
 projections are subject to change as work continues, and such changes may be
 substantial.
 
                                        18
 <PAGE>
 
 THE COSTS TO ADDRESS THE COMPANY'S YEAR 2000 ISSUES
 
          During the quarter ended March 31, 1999, Sunbeam had expended
 approximately $17 million to address Year 2000 issues of which approximately 50%
 was recorded as capital expenditures and the remainder as SG&A expense.
 Sunbeam's current assessment of the total costs to address and remedy Year 2000
 issues and enhance its operating systems, including costs for the acquired
 companies, is approximately $60 million. The amount to be incurred for Year 2000
 issues during 1999 of approximately $41 million represents over 50% of the
 Company's total 1999 budget for information systems and related support,
 including Year 2000 costs. A large majority of these costs are expected to be
 incremental expenditures that will not recur in the Year 2000 or thereafter.
 Fees and expenses related to third party consultants, who are involved in the
 PMO as well as the modification and replacement of software, represent
 approximately 75% of the total estimated cost. The balance of the total
 estimated cost relates primarily to software license fees and new hardware, but
 excludes the costs associated with Company employees. Sunbeam expects these
 expenditures to be financed through operating cash flows or borrowings, as
 applicable. A significant portion of these expenditures will enhance Sunbeam's
 operating systems in addition to resolving the Year 2000 issues. As Sunbeam
 completes its assessment of the Year 2000 issues, the actual expenditures
 incurred or to be incurred may differ materially from the amounts shown above.
 
          Because Year 2000 readiness is critical to the business, Sunbeam has
 redeployed some resources from non-critical system enhancements to address Year
 2000 issues. In addition, due to the importance of IT systems to the Company's
 business, management has deferred non-critical systems enhancements as much as
 possible. The Company does not expect these redeployments and deferrals to have
 a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations,
 or cash flows.
 
 CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS
 
          Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute
 "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
 Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as the same may be amended from time to time
 (herein the "Act") and in releases made by the SEC from time to time. Such
 forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and
 other factors which may cause the actual results, performance, or achievements
 of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance,
 or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
 Statements that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements.
 Forward-looking statements can be identified by, among other things, the use of
 forward-looking language, such as the word "estimate," "project," "intend,"
 "expect," "believe," "may," "well," "should," "seeks," "plans," "scheduled to,"
 "anticipates," or "intends," or the negative of these terms or other variations
 of these terms or comparable language, or by discussions of strategy or
 intentions, when used in connection with the Company, including its management.
 These forward-looking statements were based on various factors and were derived
 utilizing numerous important assumptions and other important factors that could
 cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking
 statements. These Cautionary Statements are being made pursuant to the Act, with
 the intention of obtaining the benefits of the "Safe Harbor" provisions of the
 Act. The Company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements made by
 the Company are not guarantees of future performance. Important assumptions and
 other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
 from those in the forward-looking statements with respect to the Company
 include, but are not limited to risks associated with (i) high leverage, (ii)
 Sunbeam's ability to comply with the terms of its credit agreement, including
 financial covenants and covenants relating to the completion of the Coleman
 merger, or to enter into an amendment to its credit agreement containing
 financial covenants which it and its bank lenders find mutually acceptable, or
 to continue to obtain waivers from its bank lenders with respect to its
 compliance with the existing covenants contained in such agreement, and to
 continue to have access to its revolving credit facility, (iii) Sunbeam's
 ability to integrate the recently acquired Coleman, Signature Brands and First
 Alert companies and expenses associated with such integration, (iv) Sunbeam's
 sourcing of products from international vendors, including the ability to select
 reliable vendors and to avoid delays in shipments, (v) Sunbeam's ability to
 maintain and increase market share for its products at anticipated margins, (vi)
 Sunbeam's ability to successfully introduce new products and to provide on-time
 delivery and a satisfactory level of customer service, (vii) changes in domestic
 and/or foreign laws and regulations, including changes in tax rates, accounting
 standards, environmental laws, occupational, health and safety laws, (viii)
 access to foreign markets together with foreign economic conditions, including
 currency fluctuations and trade, monetary and/or tax policies, (ix) uncertainty
 as to the effect of competition in existing and potential future lines of
 business, (x) fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and/or
 products, (xi) changes in the availability and costs of labor, (xii)
 effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs, (xiii) economic uncertainty
 in Japan, Korea and other Asian countries, as well as in Mexico, Venezuela, and
 other Latin American countries, (xiv) product quality, including excess warranty
 costs, product liability expenses and costs of product recalls, (xv) weather
 conditions which can have an unfavorable impact upon sales of certain of
 Sunbeam's products, (xvi) the numerous lawsuits against the Company and the SEC
 investigation into the Company's accounting practices and policies, and
 uncertainty regarding the Company's available coverage on its directors' and
 officers' liability insurance, (xvii) the possibility of a recession in the
 United States or other countries resulting in a decrease in consumer demands for
 the Company's products, (xviii) actions by competitors including business
 combinations, new product offerings and marketing and promotional activities,
 and (xix) failure of the Company and/or its suppliers of goods or services to
 timely complete the remediation of computer systems to effectively process Year
 2000 information. Other factors and assumptions not included in the foregoing
 may cause the Company's actual results to materially differ from those
 projected. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking
 statements or these cautionary statements.
 
                                        19
 <PAGE>
 
 PART II - OTHER INFORMATION
 
